The key point for growth really is how
these tech stocks are doing.
>> The AI momentum in the near term looks
pretty solid.
>> If there's any slippage in earnings from
the tech guys, I think you're going to
see a more wobbly, more volatile market.
>> This is a very what we're calling a
high-risk bull market.
>> I'm very bullish. I think the market
goes to new highs before Thanksgiving.
This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Tuesday, just off record highs, the
S&P 500 posting its biggest two-day
rally since June as earnings from Zion's
tempers fears about broader credit risk.
Investors are now turning their
attention to the embattled automakers.
Earnings from GM up next. Here's where
it gets interesting. We heard from the
banks. We heard from the airlines. A
pretty clean read on the economy. The
auto manufacturers at the epicenter of a
lot of the tariff concerns. They're at
the epicenter of a lot of concerns about
the consumer welfare and ability and
willingness to spend particularly on the
middle class levels. How much do they
give the same to sort of sanguin look
that we've seen? Do they give a sense of
how much the costs of tariffs really are
trickling out to the economy? These are
the key questions a lot of people are
looking for.
>> Those numbers drop at about 30 minutes
time. In many ways, that industry stuck
between a rock and a hard place. The
tariffs that Lisa talks about and on the
other side, EVs and attitudes to them.
>> Absolutely. There's wins and losses when
it comes to this industry. They are
higher tariffs, but the Trump
administration recently gave a longer
timeline for reduced tariff levels for
imported parts. So, they're getting some
reprieve. On top of that, they're
getting reprieve when it comes to
emissions regulations. They're going to
have to pay billions of dollars, or they
were going to have to pay billions of
dollars. They're not going to have to
under this administration. But then as
you mentioned the EV market, they're
taking right downs because there's an
expansion of the EV market with the
subsidies under the Biden
administration. All of that has come to
a pause under Trump.
>> The stock is a little bit softer this
morning. You've got to make a decade
long investment decision and you're
being whipsed by political cycles.
>> This is the difficulty right now. How do
they give a forward look when they have
to reverse on electric vehicles? When
they have to come up with how much they
can invest domestically? when they don't
have a sense of what kind of reprieve
they ultimately have. My ultimate
question is how much of a better
situation are they in than the European
auto manufacturers? Have they gotten the
carveouts they're looking for? How
immunized are they to the threat coming
from China? And how much have they
fortified supply chains that really are
going to be bulletproof no matter how
the tariffs come through even if the uh
the 232s are removed by the Supreme
Court? These are the key questions. the
CFO Paul Jacobson joining us on the
program from General Motors a little bit
later this morning, 7:30 Eastern time.
Equities more broadly doing okay, just
pulling back from close to alltime highs
on the S&P 500, negative by not even a
tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Drew Mattis of Metife with
stocks coming off their biggest two-day
gain since June. The former White House
trade official Kucit as President Trump
expects a deal with China and Earl Davis
of Beimo on increasing odds of a 50
basis point cut at the Fed's December
meeting. We begin this hour with stocks
edging lower with a slew of earnings on
deck. Drew Mattis of Metife writing, "In
the absence of government data, the only
information we have are earnings.
Mediocre nominal growth expectations are
out of sync with earnings expectations."
Drew joins us now for more. Drew, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Does something have to give?
>> Something does have to give. Uh, now
what that's going to be, uh, I'm going
to guess it's going to be markets
because it's easier for markets to give
than it is for the economy to give. And
if the economy gives, it's probably not
giving in an unexpected acceleration in
activity.
>> This is just one contradiction. There
are many more. We talked about lots of
them. Employment's dropped away. Retail
sales has been really robust. People are
still talking about the so-called
K-shaped economy. Upper income okay,
lower income struggling. Is one catching
down to the other or the other going to
catch up to the top?
>> Well, just because someone's spending
when they have money doesn't mean that
they're doing fine, right? Doesn't mean
that they feel like things are going to
continue to be good. And when you look
at the details of how income
expectations are changing, particularly
real income expectations, so accounting
for the inflation component, what you
see is actually that the upper income is
beginning to feel a lot of pressure. I
don't know whether it's what they're
buying is just going up in price more
aggressively um or whether they are
beginning to worry about their jobs a
little bit more. I suspect it's a
combination of both.
>> Where are you seeing this in particular?
And I see this as we were looking at
airline earnings, for example, and a lot
of people are shelling out for those
premium cabins. They show out for the
premium cabins, but those premium cabins
cost more. And so they're actually
seeing their lifestyle requires a much
more expensive uh payment structure now.
And so then they have to give in other
areas. And so what we're actually seeing
is when you look at spending, for
example, goods versus services, uh
people are beginning to actually cut
back on spending on services. And those
are the things that you never cut back
on. And and so typically if you're not
buying a cup of coffee in the morning,
you're not going to go out and buy a car
in the afternoon. It just takes a little
while for that to catch up across the
income spectrum. And what we're
beginning to see now is that upper
income tier is beginning to feel
pressure. They can still keep spending,
but the pressure builds and it means
probably that you'll see the savings
rate begin to decline even though it
probably should be rising based on where
interest rates are.
>> And maybe we'll get a holistic look at
this when we get retail sales. Oh wait,
we don't have any data coming out of the
government. There is this feeling right
now you need to parse through the
earnings to get a better sense of it.
Has there been anything in the earnings
so far that has ratified the view you
have or are there a couple of earnings
reports that you're really keyed into to
give you the ultimate sense of whether
this really is uh the reality this
weakening in even the upper echelons of
income earners.
>> I mean to be frank no. Uh but I mean
that that's why you know that's why I
get to do what I do is because I have to
make decisions based on kind of the
limited amount of information that I
have. What we what we are paying very
close attention to are Federal Reserve
surveys. You have to pay attention to
the beige book. You have to pay
attention to the earnings reports. But
even the earnings reports can see people
transiting from one you know one kind of
product to another right from beef to
chicken or from you know who knows what
people like anymore. I I don't
understand actually what people I I I am
not the average consumer and I am
readily willing to admit it. Um and my
tastes are not everyone's tastes. So, uh
it's it's hard to kind of figure out
which direction everyone's heading. Um
but I do know that people are shifting
from what they're used to doing. And
when people are shifting from what
they're used to doing, that's happening
because of a reason. And that reason
typically isn't good. People are
creatures of habit. They like to do what
they did yesterday. If the high-end
consumer is under pressure, what kind of
economy are you describing? Because
everyone continuously says we're in a
K-shaped economy, but what you're
describing does not sound like a
K-shaped economy.
>> So, when you when you when you do
economics for long enough, what you
realize is the top 10% spends no matter
what. The bottom 10% spends no matter
what. Uh, and there's the cohort in the
middle is actually the one that moves
around their spending because they've
got some sav potential for savings. Uh
and so you really have to watch the
movement into and out of the savings
rate uh and whether or not people are
feeling like they can spend money. Now
it gets complicated when inflation's
present because often times the way
people make up for the increase in
prices at least initially is by cutting
back on their savings rate uh even if
they were feeling a lot of pressure or
worries about their job. And so things
begin to break down those relationships
begin to break down. And so, you know,
all the people using, you know, AI to
model the economy right now, uh, you
know, it's the big new new thing. Those
models are incredibly complicated. And
what you're going to see is that the
coefficients on the front of of each,
um, of each variable that you can use
are probably shifting around and they
might be canceling each other out. And
so, your whole model might be breaking
down. And you're probably not going to
recognize it if you're using models that
are too advanced rather than looking at
individual components of what's
happening. and the relationships
between, for example, savings and
interest rates.
>> What are you most looking at this week,
next week when it comes to earning
season to really understand how much
that high-end consumer is under
pressure?
>> Well, as I said, it's it's difficult for
us to kind of look at an individual
company and figure out what's going on.
Upper income consumers are going to
continue to spend on things like
airfare. They're going to continue to go
on vacation. The question is, are they
going on vacation and instead of going
to Europe, they're going to California?
or instead of going, you know, they're
taking the slightly less expensive
option. There are down, you know,
everyone's got a lifestyle and certain
things are downgrades for certain
people. And I it's it's easy for us to
all kind of laugh about it, but for
these people, it's actually a serious
change in their lifestyle and it affects
their perception of what it means to be
rich, for example. What's it mean to be
rich when you actually have to think
about the airfare, right? These are
people who are not used to thinking
about how much they spend on airfare.
They're not used to thinking about, gee,
you know, like I really like that hotel.
It's in the center of the city and it's
my favorite hotel because they have a
favorite hotel in Europe, right? And now
they're thinking, well, I can't afford
my favorite hotel in Europe. I have to
downgrade it. It actually it comes with
this social cost. You don't have to cry
for these people. Their lives are still
really good and probably better than a
lot of people's, but you know, it
doesn't mean that they feel as good as
they used to.
>> Drew, banks aren't feeling as good as
they used to after last week. Let's talk
about the financials. Zion in the
pre-market is up by 2.5%. It was the
focal point of a lot of people last week
coming out and basically revealing some
losses tied to potential fraud. This
isn't the first time we've seen this
kind of thing. We've seen some other
credit issues as well. You've got the
credit issues on the one side and then
really robust earnings on the other side
and we saw that from Zion overnight. How
are you and what is your perspective on
what is happening right now in this
sector?
>> Well, so I people are nervous. uh if you
look at credit market spreads are
incredibly tight. So you're in this
weird world where all in yields are
okay, right? The amount you can get paid
for is okay, but the actual premium
you're getting paid to take risk is
actually maybe a little too low. And so
um I I think what you're seeing is just
the nervousness around the around the
economy that we don't really understand
that everything's okay. We we're waiting
for that next shoe to drop. Jamie
Diamond, you know, put it famously. Uh
what he's really expressing is not that
he sees anything, but that he's
expecting something. It's kind of like
you live in an apartment in New York
City and you might never see a roach,
but they're there. You know they're in
the walls. You know it, right? And so
you don't leave food out. You do a whole
bunch of different things when you live
in New York. You know, there's things
that you can do in suburban New Jersey
where I live that are okay because
you're not going to attract animals that
quickly. Uh but if you do it in New York
City, you're basically stunk. And I
think the the risk is is that people are
really focused on um you know what
they're not seeing and and the fact of
the matter is is with no economic data
and with you know earnings kind of you
know being okay for the most part uh
they're nervous that they're missing
something but they don't know what
they're missing.
>> So Drew where are we? Are we in a great
house on Murray Hill infested with
cockroaches or are we in a nice Soho
apartment? What is this? We might be
trading down from a Soho apartment to
something on the Upper East Side.
>> Okay. Does that mean you're d-risking?
>> Uh, we've been we've been derisked for a
while now. I mean, to be honest with
you, since co there have been kind of,
you know, there's been kind of one risk
after another after another. Uh, and you
know, to the extent that we've been able
to kind of go up in credit, we've been
going up in credit. I don't think that's
a surprise to anyone. And and I think
you know, everyone who's able to has
been doing that. uh or you've been
looking to things like privates where
you're taking maybe more liquidity risk
which you can more easily define um but
getting uh less credit risk on on most
sides of it if you're doing your
underwriting properly.
>> Drew, good to see you. This was a trip.
Thank you, sir. Drew Mattis there of
Metife equity futures this morning doing
okay, just pulling back from close to
alltime highs on the S&P 500. Negative
by close to a tenth of 1% with an update
on stories worldwide this morning with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. President Donald Trump signed
an agreement with Australian Prime
Minister Anthony Albanesi to boost
access to critical minerals and rare
earth. The deal is part of efforts to
secure stable supply of critical
minerals with Australia positioning
itself as a viable alternative to China.
Elsewhere, Sonati Takahichi won the
parliamentary vote to become Japan's
first female prime minister. Takayichi
has appointed a cabinet, including the
country's first female finance minister.
She's now preparing for diplomatic
events, including a visit to Japan by US
President Donald Trump next week. And
Amazon Web Services says that operations
are back to normal after a widespread
outage that hit a broad spectrum of
customers for around 15 hours. The
episode disrupted hundreds of websites
and apps, including the likes of Venmo,
Robin Hood, and Apple TV. The outage was
caused by a database network issue and
highlights just how much of the internet
is dependent on the operations of the
company. And that's your believe me
brief job.
>> Hey Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzie
in about 30 minutes time. I'm next on
the program. Expecting a fair deal.
>> I expect we'll probably work out a very
fair deal with uh President Xi of China.
I want them to do great. I want them to
thrive, but we have to thrive together.
It's a two-way street.
>> In just a moment, we'll catch up with
the former White House trade official
Kate Kucawitz from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Check out this stock in
the pre-market. Zion's Bankor positive
by 2.5%. A notable credit loss just last
week. Good earnings delivered after the
close yesterday. That's been a story
more broadly for the sector. These
flashy headlines around credit, but
ultimately the earning story has been
okay. The stock of 5331. Thursday's
close following all that mess 4693.
We've rallied since then Friday, Monday,
and again so far this morning. The
broader market this morning looks like
this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
pulling back from yesterday's gains.
We're down by not even a tenth of 1%
after closing very, very close to
all-time highs. unless this morning
expecting a fair deal.
>> If they don't do business with us, I
think China's in big trouble. I'll be
honest with you. I don't know that they
even make it. I really do. I believe
that they're in big trouble, and I don't
want them to be in big trouble. I want
them to do great. I want them to thrive,
but we have to thrive together. It's a
two-way street. I expect we'll probably
work out a very fair deal with uh
President Xi of China. So, uh most of
you will be with us. It's going to be
very exciting and I think we're going to
work out something that's good for both
countries.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump optimistic about
reaching a trade deal with China but
maintaining he'll hike tariffs if a deal
isn't reached by the November deadline.
Joining us now is Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall. Tyler, good morning. We heard
that word fair. What's a fair deal with
China?
>> Yeah. Hey John, good morning. Well, it
could look like a few different things.
We know that the US wants to see China
in particular drop those export curbs
that it unveiled on critical and rare
earth minerals. Which is why that
November 1st date is so interesting when
you hear President Trump reiterate his
threat that higher levies could go into
effect then because November is also
that timeline that Beijing has unveiled
for its own enforcement action when it
comes to those export controls. We're
going to have to wait and see what's
going to ultimately be on the table
here. We heard President Trump over the
weekend outline those top demands when
it comes to fentanyl, soybeans, but also
worth mentioning that he did mention
yesterday that he also expects Taiwan to
now potentially come into these talks.
Though he did downplay the idea that
there could be military conflict in the
region and declined to say whether or
not he felt that China was going to
propose trade concessions in exchange
for greater control of the island. going
to be watching a few different things,
but it's clear that this White House
ahead of the meeting is bolstering up
its position, particularly when it comes
to rare earths. We know it was a key
focus yesterday at the White House as
the US and Australia inked that $ 8.5
billion cooperation deal largely seen as
a way to bolster against China's grip on
the critical mineral market. John, I'll
also put on your radar that we got some
pretty stark words from the USR Jameson
Greer yesterday as well, threatening
China, saying that it should not
retaliate against any foreign companies
looking to help the US bolster its
position in these critical industries
even beyond rare earths. The USR
threatening action after Beijing moved
last week to sanction five US units of a
South Korean shipping giant amid this
ongoing dispute when it comes to the
maritime sector between the US and
Beijing. John, it's just another thread
to pull on as we head into this critical
meeting.
>> Some good cop bad cop going into
negotiations. Tyler, thank you. Building
on this conversation, the former White
House trade official Kate Kucawitz.
Kate, welcome back to the program. We've
talked lots about the president's asks
going into these conversations, these
negotiations. What do we know about what
China wants in return?
>> Well, I think China wants lower tariffs.
You know, I it it seems that they have
been dealing with the pressure of
tariffs, but that pressure is increasing
from other trading partners as well.
China's economy is slowing. They're
dependent on trade, and I think they are
struggling a bit to to find some
leverage in these discussions, which is
why they keep going to this familiar
threat to restrict rare earths. Besides
tariff levels, what is the equivalent
the US can use that matches China's use
of rare earths in the negotiation?
>> It's a really great question and I think
it's why we keep finding ourselves back
in this position where the the US
threatens tariffs, China threatens rare
earth controls and we end up with a deal
that resets us back at the status quo.
Both sides are struggling to find
leverage outside of these two areas. And
I think it's why we now see both of
them, particularly the United States
moving to to to, you know, encourage our
trading partners to join the frey. We
need to bring a bit more pressure from
outside because we're struggling to do
it ourselves.
>> Kate, what about barring Chinese
companies that are listed on US stock
exchanges? Is that a third rail that the
US could float out there in these
negotiations?
>> You know, it could be. the the United
States is increasingly looking at these
these so-called entity lists, these
these ways in which they target US
companies and their affiliates. So so
certainly that would be one possible
option for them to consider. What's
happened, however, is that these actions
are really bringing other companies from
other countries into the frey. You heard
the issue related to the South Korean
shipping company. We have a Dutch
semiconductor caught in the middle of
this. This is creating a very
uncomfortable position for companies
around the world but also their their
sovereign nations.
>> Mean meanwhile there was this deal
overnight between the United States and
Australia to secure some rare earth
minerals and this idea that maybe the US
can source it from elsewhere. How does
that fit in some of the discussions that
are ongoing with China and the US?
>> I think it's critically important. The
United States, as I mentioned, is is
struggling a bit in these talks because
the reality is we are heavily dependent
on rare earths. So you you all know how
our our car and defense and aerospace
sectors cannot operate without the rare
earths from China. So in the meantime,
while President Trump continues to try
to reset this status quo with China, he
is also ensuring that that this is not
something that persists. He needs to
find other sources of rare earths. The
deal with Australia was a really
important step forward in securing rare
earths from a source other than China.
But of course, it will take time.
>> It feels like the administration and
actually both sides are trying to buy
time to insulate one another from some
of the trade partnerships that they have
ongoing. And I wonder how much Taiwan is
increasingly going to be used as a chip
in buying time. I mean, how much could
you actually see the US take a step back
from protection of Taiwan or some other
type of outreach to China, which is
something that they would desire? Well,
I I think you're exactly right that both
sides are are seeking to buy time. I
think the United States, you know,
President Trump made those comments
about Taiwan yesterday. That was the
first time we've heard that really
publicly entered back into this
discussion. Um he's been quite clear,
you know, that he does not support any
sort of military intervention into
Taiwan, but I think he's going to try to
dance around and not anger China. But
remember what what else is important in
in bringing allies to our side is in the
in South Asia Sea and and what the
president is hoping to achieve with the
new Japanese prime minister, I will be
very focused on Japan offering some
support in the military arena. Kate, if
you're China, do you just want to wait
and keep the status quo until the
Supreme Court rules on whether or not
AIPA is legal or not?
>> Well, perhaps, although I don't think
that's the wisest strategy. I mean, even
if President Trump loses the Supreme
Court uh decision, and that's not a
guarantee. He has many other authorities
to to bring tariff pain on the Chinese.
And not least of that, you know, he has
all of these export restrictions that he
can continue to place. So AIBA or not,
the president certainly is not going to
change his approach toward China and I
don't think the Supreme Court is going
to be any sort of victory lap for the
Chinese in the near term. Having worked
under Trump 1.0, could you see a
scenario where he does show up for oral
arguments at the Supreme Court,
anything's possible. You know, when he
says he's going to do something, it
means he's really considering doing it.
So it certainly would not be a shock to
me if if he shows up there. Kate,
appreciate your time as always. Kucit
there, the former White House trade
official with the latest on these talks.
Lots has been talked about about what
the president would like to see.
Soybeans, rare earths, all of those
things. We all understand why.
Ultimately, what do the Chinese want in
return? Is it tariff relief? I think
that's easy to give given where tariffs
are currently super high. Or is it
something else? Does it include an
attitude, a shift towards Taiwan?
>> Potentially. And the president was clear
that that would be part of the
discussion, but then he stopped there.
He didn't want to continue on actually
what the United States would be willing
maybe to discuss with China when it
comes to Taiwan. When it comes to the
tariff levels though, if that's really
what China wants, that's why the
president continues that even though he
says he thinks this is going to be a
good deal, he always says, "But we have
the threat. We could bring it up north
of 100% if we have to."
>> Can we just get some clarity on
deadlines? November. It feels like
there's two. November 10th, November 1.
Which one's which? November 10th is when
the current truce, that 90-day rolling
period we have where tariff levels are
pretty much frozen back in Geneva in May
that they agreed upon the US and
Beijing, that's November 10th. That's
the deadline, but they're going to meet
before November 10th. So, the market
will have a lot to adjust knowing
whether or not an agreement was made or
not. November 1st is what the president
said he can bring the tariffs north of
100%. So he kind of puts two of the
deadlines um at loggerheads with each
other and doesn't exactly make sense,
but keep both in mind.
>> Mike Wilson and Morgan Stanley Lisa had
this to say yesterday. It's important to
see clearer trade deescalation from both
sides before declaring the allcle on the
risk of a further near-term correction.
This spat has once again become the
story in this market over the last few
weeks. The story though has changed from
oh my gosh this is going to be a
decoupling that's going to lead to some
sort of Armageddon in markets to do we
get a dip that we can buy and then a
profit on the other side. So that really
has been the feeling and that is a
market shift from April 2nd.
>> The dips are small and they don't last
long. Here's another one. We're down by
not even a tenth of 1% on the S&P 500
after closing very close to record highs
in yesterday's session. Up next on the
program, we've got some earnings for
you. The numbers from General Motors.
This is a tough tough industry. Breaking
down the figures in just a moment.
Bloomberg's Craig Trudeau. Plus, we'll
catch up with you with your morning
movers. Sunun soaring on an upgrade from
City. That stock is up by more than 7%.
From New York City, you're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
Two-day winning streak on the S&P 500.
The best two-day rally since June.
Equity futures this morning pulling back
just a little bit. We're down a tenth of
1% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ down by.12
for the regional banks up 4% in just two
sessions. The bounce continued through
yesterday and continues through this
morning. More on that in just a moment.
On the Russell 2000, equity futures
there negative by 0.24%.
Let's get you some morning movers. 3
hours away from the cash open. Here's
Yahihara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. We start with Core Scientific.
Those shares are rising nearly 3% in the
pre-market after proxy adviser ISS said
Cororee's $9 billion takeover offer
undervalues the company. Now the deal
would help Cororeweave expand its AI
computing capacity, but this new
recommendation adds to a chorus of
worries around the deal and injects
fresh uncertainty since institutional
investors typically follow the advice of
ISS. Moving on to Zions. This of course
was the bank at the center of last
week's credit jitter. Shares are now up
2.5%. I know you all will discuss it.
So, just to check on shares up again two
and a half% after the lender topped
profit and margin estimates even after
swallowing that $50 million hit from
alleged loan loss. And we end on the
residential solar company SunRun shares
are up 6.5%
after city upgraded the stock to a buy
and upped its price target to $26. The
call comes as the solar sector tries to
regain its footing under a Trump
administration that has rolled back
green incentives and made a renewed push
for fossil fuels. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Thanks for the
update. More from Yahara in the next
hour. On our radar this morning, credit
fears easing on Wall Street following
positive results from Zions. The company
reporting third quarter results, the
topped estimates despite a $50 million
loss from an alleged fraud. Elsewhere,
President Donald Trump expecting to make
a fair and great trade deal with China's
Xi Jinping when the two meet in South
Korea just next week. Trump warning new
tariffs will go into effect. No
agreement is reached by uh his November
1st deadline. Elsewhere, General Motor
shares higher. Those numbers just drop
in moments ago. GM with a beat and a
race.
>> Pretty much across the board coming out
with expectations for the fullear
adjusted earnings per share at the upper
range from $9.75 to $10.50 50 cents uh
from the high range of $10. Full year
autofree cash flow above expectations.
You can go through it was a really clean
read across the board. What's
interesting is the tenor of this letter
to shareholders. I also want to thank
the president and his team for the
important tariff updates they made on
Friday talking about making more than
two million vehicles per year in the
United States. A big discussion here
clearly in here focused on the political
backdrop and talking about how tariffs
came in lower than expected and allowed
them to more effectively mitigate any of
the potential ramifications. The
automakers or rather the lobbyists for
the automakers did their job and got a
reprieve longer lag time, longer lead
time in terms of how low the tariff
could be for these imported parts. And
you're seeing it right here. They're
talking about fullear gross tariff
impact improve to 3.5 to$4.5 billion
from 4 to5 billion. Not a ton, but they
are working on these mitigation efforts.
On top of that, the CEO also talking
about the evolving regulatory framework
and the end of federal consumer
incentives now clear that near-term EV
adoption will be lower than planned. So
they are dealing with a number of policy
issues in Washington that are impacting
their everyday decisions whether it's
EVs, tariffs or fuel emissions.
>> Get on a bounce this morning in the
pre-market. A stock is high by 6%.
Joining us now from London with more is
Bloom Creal. Craig, welcome to the
program. How agile do these automakers
need to be when they're getting whipsed
by political cycle after political
cycle?
I mean, it it's hard uh to to sort of uh
o overstate, you know, just how
significant that whipsong has been when
you go from uh you know, from the Obama
administration to Trump to Biden to
Trump again. Uh we've we've seen fuel
economy uh regulations and emissions
rules uh really sort of wax and wayne to
this really significant degree. And you
you saw uh you know, Mary Bar really
sort of answer the call under the Biden
administration building an awful lot of
battery uh you know battery supply in
the US uh building also uh you know
setting like you know reworking assembly
lines to make electric vehicles a lot of
that is now being undone you know to the
tune of you know this quarter they're
taking a $ 1.6 6 billion charge related
to undoing some of that investment and
they've warned that there may be more to
come there. On the other hand, all of
that investment in electric vehicles and
in batteries has been costing this
company money and they've uh you know
they've gone from you know prior uh sort
of forecasting that they would lose less
but uh but that you know that was still
going to be a drag to now they can do
away with that. they can make more
full-size SUVs and and pickups that, you
know, all along have been what really
sort of is their, you know, money-making
product. And oh, by the way, they don't
have to pay for, you know, compliance
costs to to, you know, regulatory credit
uh revenue that that flows right to
Tesla's uh, you know, bottom line. So,
this is a significant amount of relief
for them even as they have uh, you know,
real sort of headwinds from the tariff
perspective.
>> Craig, it's worth pointing out Amar's
done the same thing. There are positives
and negatives for the auto industry.
Just on the negatives, Craig, what's
been the bigger challenge for this
company? Has it been the tariffs or the
issues and regulations around EVs?
I think, you know, is it's going to be
uh you know, difficult for them to sell
as many EVs as they uh expected. And
yet, again, that may not be as as big of
a problem for them uh at least in the
near term. Longer term, that's a a big
question. if this industry really goes
uh electric outside of the US and the US
becomes this sort of laggered market. I
think in terms of uh the near-term far
and away the the bigger issue is tariffs
and you're seeing Mary Bar sort of uh
trying to mitigate that quickly by
investing a heck of a lot in in US
factories and trying to uh you know sort
of rework some of that capacity that had
been dedicated to EVs uh to uh products
like SUVs and pickups and really banking
on the ability that that that demand is
going to be there uh where the the EV
demand that that everybody was hoping
for didn't necessarily materialize.
Craig, on that tariff point, Namry was
talking about this that the uh that the
company said that tariff mitigation
action actions are expected to offset
about 35% of the cost due to a lower
tariff base. Do we have a sense of what
type of tariff mitigation actions
they're taking? Is this a code for
increasing prices? Is it code for laying
people off?
>> I think uh you know, some of it is is
investment. And I mean just in the last
few months this this company has
announced $4 billion of of investment in
US factories and some of this is going
to be incremental shifting of production
from Mexico to the US. I think uh you
know that that will cost the the company
uh some some real uh you know capex and
also uh I I think there's there's
probably a fairly good likelihood of uh
you know the need to to perhaps consider
raising prices to take into account for
the fact that production in the US is
going to to be costlier for GM than
making in Mexico. uh and and yet there's
also I I think uh you know sort of an
argument to be made that you know maybe
this is for the best for the company
going forward in that you know even in
an age after Trump when you're thinking
about you know sort of the the political
risk of of uh just how much you know
manufacturing has been hollowed out in
the US and the fact that Trump has
proved this is good politics uh to sort
of saber rattle over how much companies
are making in America uh maybe it's for
the best that that GM am sort of, you
know, takes heed here a and sort of
undoes some of this out offshoring that
has been, you know, taking place over
decades.
>> And we certainly saw that in Mary
Barah's letter where she's talking about
$4 billion of investments and onshoring
production plants in Tennessee, Kansas,
and Michigan, talking about jobs created
in New York. I'm just wondering on the
other side of the GM equation, the idea
that this is an incredible company to
look at because it both is at the
crosshairs of a lot of domestic policy,
but also can get a read on consumer
demand. Do we have a sense of how much
consumers are absorbing higher prices,
are continuing to buy cars? Do we have a
sense of how much that beat as well?
It's it's a great question because you
know on one hand you do see uh really
strong sales of of high-end vehicles
particularly I would say uh the big SUVs
that GM and Ford make. You know we're
seeing uh you know some of the strongest
sales of of uh bigger vehicles uh like
say you know the the Chevy Tahoe uh the
Ford Expedition uh than we've seen you
know in in 20 years. And yet uh we're
also on the other hand seeing uh you
know higher rates of of delinquencies uh
signs of strain from a credit
perspective. And so you do have to kind
of wonder uh to what degree uh you know
we're seeing a bifurcation of of you
know sort of the best off consumers uh
being able to afford going out and
buying a new vehicle. And yet, you know,
under the surface is is that incremental
new car buyer uh now coming under
greater strain than ever now that we're
coming off a month, by the way, which
you know, the average price of a new
vehicle sold in the US just just hit a
record of more than $50,000 for the
first time. That's a lot of money for a
lot of consumers and and that's likely
going to to cost us, you know, some
incremental new vehicle sales where
where the consumer says, you know what,
I'm just going to buy a lightly used
vehicle instead. Greg, when it comes to
their policy out of Washington, what you
hear from a lot of auto lobbyists were
that at one point, given the president
was striking all these deals with Asian
companies, you can get a Japanese-made
car at a lower tariff level than an
Americanmade car. Given the latest
reprieve some of the auto sector
industry companies have gotten, are they
now on par to compete globally?
>> It's really hard to answer that
question. I think you know to to what
degree uh you know this is a bit of
gamesmanship in Washington. You talked
about the lobbyists really uh doing
their job here. I think it is still the
case that if if you're uh a Toyota or a
Honda that you know even if you've
gotten some some relief uh in terms of
you know the cars that you're continuing
to import from Japan uh I I don't think
anyone who's you know sort of managing
uh you know operations for Toyota or
Honda or Nissan is feeling at all
comfortable about any capacity that
they're relying on from outside of the
US and so uh there we're also seeing a
lot of incremental investment on those
companies to to, you know, sort of go
from any any slack that they have in
their US uh, you know, plants, you know,
filling filling that slack, addressing
that uh, with investment, localizing
more production. And, uh, you know, to
the degree that that there's some relief
uh, being offered by this
administration, it is still costing you
more than it did, you know, before Trump
was in office uh, to ship uh, cars uh,
from Japan into the US. It's a question
of how much uh sort of competitive
dynamics uh are you know sort of wash
out. It's it's really difficult to get
to the bottom of you know whether this
is uh you know good messaging on the
part of GM and Ford in Washington as
opposed to uh legitimately it's it's you
know you're better off shipping from
Japan uh into the US.
>> Stock is up this morning in the
pre-market by 6.5%. Just a final
question, Craig, slightly provocative
one, but on EVs and the strategy on EVs
from GM, this predates this presidency.
And I think we have to bring that up.
It's important to highlight. And here's
the provocative question, Craig. Do you
think in some ways the administration
has done this company a favor to get
them to focus on the one thing over the
other when investors been asking that
question for a long time?
Yeah, I mean I mean I think it it is a
question of of uh you know long-term
versus short-term. I think in the short
term absolutely this is going to be
better off for the company in in terms
of uh you know uh investment that
they're not going to have to make uh
spending that they've had to to make uh
in the past that they no longer will
have to. Uh the question will be for me
is is long-term if this is still the
case that uh we are going to get to a
place where electric vehicles are what
dominates the global industry. Uh have
have we sort of benefited US
manufacturers for now but sort of lost
sight of the fact that for the long term
uh we've only made them you know less
competitive 10 years 15 years from now.
>> Really important framing Craig. Thank
you sir. Appreciate it. Fantastic work.
Craig Trud there of Bloomberg out of
London. Don't miss our conversation
later on this morning. The GM CFO in
just under one hour's time. We're going
to catch up with him at 7:30. Paul
Jacobson knows a lot about working in
volatile industries in his time in the
airline business over at Delta and now
at a big automaker heavyweight General
Motors and they have got to be super
agile because things have been
incredibly volatile.
>> Super agile and super political. I mean
you can see that for the letter to
shareholders. It talks a lot about
Washington DC and investments in the
United States. a key question especially
given the fact that they are in these
crosshairs of changing policies how they
also face off with a consumer that seems
to be somewhat I don't know shifty or
difficult to really pin down and I'm
curious about both of those things
policy and the consumer
>> shift is like shady right you know okay
maybe you know I don't know K-shaped
U-shaped Y-shaped
>> just throw out a letter you know how
this works on Wall Street
>> that's like kind of what we were doing
this morning
>> basically odd start to the program
Today, General Motors up by 6.5% in the
pre-market. Decent numbers from that
company. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide. With your Bloomberg
brief is Lizzie Burden. Hey, Lizzie.
Hey, John. Shares of GE Aerospace higher
after the company raised its fullear
outlook for the second quarter in a row
thanks to the strong rebound in global
air travel. The jet engine manufacturer
boosted its forecast for revenue growth,
operating profit, and free cash flow. G
Aerospace shares have soared more than
80% this year driven by rising demand
for maintenance and new engines. And as
you were discussing, shares of GM
soaring after the automaker raised its
fullear outlook and posted third quarter
results that topped analyst expectations
on better than expected pickup truck
sales and fresh relief from the Trump
administration's tariffs on auto parts.
GM will also be reducing its EV
investment. In a letter to shareholders,
the CEO Mary Barah says it is now clear
that near-term EV adoption will be lower
than planned. And Apple shares hit their
first record this year after Loop
Capital upgraded the stock to buy from
hold, citing positive iPhone demand
trends. Shares rose about 4%, surpassing
an all-time high that had stood since
December. Apple now closing in on a $4
trillion market cap. And that should be
brief. John
>> Lizzy, thank you. More from Lizzie in
about 30 minutes time. This from Luke
Capitals Ananda Bura saying, "We are now
at the front end of Apple's long
anticipated adoption cycle. Dan Ies of
Wed Bush has been waiting for this one
for a long time."
>> iPhone 17. Have you gotten it?
>> Getting closer.
>> Really? Well, this is I mean, listen,
this is I checked out. I checked out
something in his phone yesterday and I
was like, it's cooked. You got to get a
phone.
>> Yeah. It wasn't working properly
yesterday, was it? I know. All right. Up
next on the program, the Fed's easing
regime. Right now they're almost getting
a little bit of a free pass on this
October meeting because both are in good
shape. Consumer spending and corporate
credit that this will help I think lower
rates would help prevent maybe that next
shoe to drop in terms of weakness.
>> That conversation up next with Davis of
Beimo live from New York City. You're
watching Blind TV.
[Music]
GM this morning in the pre-market higher
by 8%. Really, really decent numbers
from that company this morning. A beat
and a raise even though they've been
whipsawed all year. We talked about
mitigation strategies. Seems like
something's working over at General
Motors.
>> Yeah. And you can see that actually
rebound into Ford shares also up, not as
much, but you can see there's a positive
tone that maybe the costs aren't as
great, the mitigation tactics are
effective, and the consumers are still
buying cars and that actually is the key
kind of aspect of all of this.
>> The CFO Paul Jacobson joining the
program a little bit later this morning,
40 minutes from now. For the broader
market, welcome to the program. Pretty
snoozey so far. unchanged on the S&P
500, negative by only a tenth of 1% on
the NASDAQ. Under Savannah this morning,
the Fed's easing regime.
Ultimately, they are telegraphing that
they're expecting to be lower over the
next few quarters. Right now, they're
almost getting a little bit of a free
pass on this October meeting because
it's going to be more cockroaches,
right? They're going to be more there is
going to be more credit stress. Both are
in good shape, consumer spending and
corporate credit. But this will help. I
think lower rates would help prevent
maybe that next shooter to drop in terms
of weakness.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Traders locking in bets. The Fed
continues its easing cycle at next
week's rate decision. El Davis of Beimo
seeing an increasing chance of a 50
basis point rate cut in December, saying
the opaqueness and lack of transparency
in private credit could be used to
accelerate eases. Join us now for more.
Welcome to the program, buddy. So, let's
skip October. That's done dusted. What's
on the table for December? Well,
December, our base case is still 25
basis points. We just see the chance of
a 50 has increased dramatically. And the
reason why it's increased dramatically
um is because we've moved our possible
terminal rate, we saw a terminal around
3% slightly higher than than the market
to 250. And the reason why we see we've
lowered it so dramatically um is because
of you know yourricolor, your true brand
basically private credit in general. uh
we believe that the private credit where
um the opakqueness comes in from and the
ownership of it it's usually real money
pension plans and like so it's going to
be a slow sleeping uh seeping credit uh
move uh wider like things wider. Um so
it's binary whether they go 50 but we
see an increasing chance of 50 in
>> do you believe then based on the credit
risk that you describe do you think it
could lead to a broader tightening of
financial conditions
>> temporarily? Yes, we do believe it can.
We don't believe it's systemic. And the
reason why we don't believe it's
systemic is, as I said, most of the
holders of private credit are real
money. So, they could take the losses.
Uh liabilities, they still have the
liabilities to deal with. So, it does
have an impact on the economy, but they
could take the losses. Having said that,
why why we see it as a possibly
took the safety off the gun of 50 eases.
And the thing about 50s is um central
banks just don't do 150 otherwise they
wouldn't do it. Um so that's why we we
lowered our expectation for terminal uh
to 250 by the end of 2026.
>> So I hate talking about cockroaches this
early in the morning. But there is sort
of this irony that the reason why there
are these fears of credit problems is
because of the prolific Fed policy that
has enabled this and the fact that
monetary conditions used to be a lot
lower to allow a lot of credit creation
uh that may have overlooked a number of
different underwriting standards. I'm
just wondering if there's a bit of moral
hazard here. the idea that the economy
isn't cracking and that the Fed could
respond to concerns in credit that were
done in pretty easy financing
conditions.
Yeah, we do believe um I I don't know if
I'd use the word moral hazard, but there
is definitely inflation hazard risk um
um because you know it hasn't our growth
despite what's going on in credit our
growth expectations have not changed for
2026 and it's because you know big
beautiful bill everything people are
hearing we think it's very supportive of
growth and growth will still be good. So
then you're going to be in a in a very
easy uh financial conditions market and
we think uh there's a big risk for
inflation but the market's not focused
on that. We're not focused on that right
now. We think that's a late uh 2026
story. One of the interesting things
about inflation though we do get a print
Friday and if we do get a higher than
expected print the market you know
credit will widen duration will go
higher. We think that's temporary. We
would use that as an opportunity to go
longer duration and to go longer credit
because we think the 50 basis point uh
eases are very much on the table.
>> So if inflation is still a concern,
Earl, how do you get conviction to go
into long-term rates on Fed cuts that
affect the front end of the yield curve?
>> Yeah, it's it's very easy. As I I said,
you know, I've been in this market for
30 years and and one of the things with
the market is it only focuses on one
thing at a time. And right now inflation
is not the focus. So it's determining
what is the catalyst to get inflation
back on the radar. And there there's
basically two catalysts. One is
employment. Employment starts improving.
We don't expect to see that until 2026.
And you know there's no data or uh tier
one data coming out on employment. And
the second thing is geopolitical. Uh and
what I mean geopolitical is an oil price
spike. Um that we'll see coming um and
we'll be able to to adjust positions
accordingly. And the reason why I say
we'll be able to adjust positions
accordingly in a higher yield bare
market, you don't get, you know, yields
higher by two or three or four or five
basis points a day. You get yields
higher by 15 or 20. Once you start
getting a sense of that with a catalyst
either being oil or employment when that
starts coming out, that's when you
adjust duration to reflect that. Right
now it's an easing environment. There's
no catalyst for that to turn. And our
terminal, as I said before, has gone
lower, which changes our view on
duration right now.
>> Earl, will the government shutdown force
the market just to focus on inflation?
That's the data we're going to get. And
what you hear from Washington is that
they're expecting a prolonged shutdown,
even potentially having congressmen and
women come back to extend the date on
the continuing resolution because
they're hunkering down for a long
shutdown.
>> Yeah, the market will focus on
inflation. I think that's fair, but it
won't be persistently focused on that
because you'll get central bank speak
once they're out of the blackout period
or at the FOMC meeting. Uh, and you'll
get, you know, um, people focusing back
on employment, you know. Um, and that's
why we see it as a buying opportunity
because that focus will be very
short-lived, very temporary. Um, so, so
yes, it will focus on inflation, but you
know, everyone's made clear that
employment is the thing that the central
bankers are looking at. El Davis of
Beimo. Oh, thank you.
>> Can I say one more thing? Can I say one
more thing?
>> 20 seconds, sir. You can absolutely
>> go Blue Jays. Go. Thank you.
>> Oh my god.
>> Nice.
>> Good luck with Good luck with Otani,
Earl. Good luck.
Is he allowed back?
>> Yeah. No, absolutely.
>> I thought it was going to be more
piercing insight on Marcus, but it was
just shade for Amory.
>> Evidently. Evidently, although honestly,
you're right. Shan Natani was just
absolutely a monster. So, good luck with
that.
>> Showtime is going to destroy Toronto.
Wasn't that brutal?
>> That was Earl. I didn't know he had it
in him.
>> Regular watch like that.
>> I think it's great.
>> You're welcome back.
>> Killing AMH.
>> Oh yeah.
>> Coming up on the program, Evan Brown of
UBS Asset Management, Monica Guerrero of
Morgan Stanley, GM CFO Paul Jacobson,
and Michael Reed of RBC.
>> We still have a very resilient and
robust economy. profitability is still
strong. Financial conditions aren't
pulling back.
>> I think we should be very careful about
cutting into higher inflation.
>> You're going to see the balance of risk
shift back a little bit towards the
inflation.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg Savannah starts right now and
your scores look like this. Secretary
futures on the S&P 500 down by not even
a tenth of 1% following the biggest
2-day rally since June on the S&P 500.
In the bond market, twos pretty stable.
Likewise on 10 across the curve at the
moment, pretty much unchanged. 10's at
398. Twos at 346. For the day ahead,
lots of earnings. The earning season
starts to build up. We had Zions before
the close or rather before the open
yesterday. After the close, we will get
Western Alliance after the close today.
We've just had GM, decent numbers from
them, and Netflix a little bit later as
well.
>> What's interesting is all of these
companies are telling a really positive
story. I mean, really, they're all
coming at different angles, but whether
it's Zion's putting to rest some of the
worst credit fears and the idea of some
sort of big credit bubble that was
busting to GM putting aside some of the
concerns about tariff related costs
really coming to the four, the consumer
still strong from Coca-Cola. You look at
all of these things and you start
wondering how many people can still feel
bearish on the US economy and feel like
it is necessary to cut rates
dramatically and yet people are saying
that you can cut rates dramatically
because oil prices are low. So you put
this together and it feels like that
meltup just seems poised to continue.
>> Brammo questioning the bare thesis is
the scariest thing I've heard all
morning.
>> That's the top,
>> right?
>> That's the top.
>> Well, I mean a Gucci blazer. All I can
say, all I can say is you have to wonder
where is the hole that's going to get
poked in all of this narrative. I mean,
really, we were talking about earlier
about maybe some trade down. Is that
really enough to hang your hat on?
>> Banks are making money. Saw that across
the board in the last week. Saw it from
Zions just yesterday. Will we see it
with Western Alliance later on? And GM
to Brammo's point is selling lots of
cars. GM numbers are beating a race.
>> They're selling lots of cars, but and
they are doing tariff mitigation
efforts. And as you said, the CEO is
thanking the president in terms of the
reprieve the auto industry recently
gotten in terms of the highlevel tariffs
they were paying on auto parts coming
into the United States. But still 2025
fullear gross tariff impact improved.
What is the improvement? 3.5 to$4.5
billion from 4 to5 billion. They're
still paying billions of dollars when it
comes to the tariff policy out of the
United States.
>> The stock is up this morning by close to
8% on General Motors. will speak to the
CFO very shortly. Coming up this hour,
Evan Brown of UBS as a big tech rally
fizzles out. Monica Agüero of Morgan
Stanley as President Trump finds a new
ally in the rare earth space. And the
CFO of General Motors, Paul Jacobson,
with a big earnings beat for the
automaker. He joins us in about 27
minutes time. We begin this app with
stocks hovering near record highs ahead
of a busy week of earnings and inflation
data. Evan Brown of UBS seeing
resilience in the market, writing,
"Until the private sector meaningfully
levers up, severe negative outcomes for
the economy and market are a low
probability." Evan joins us now for
more. Evan, good morning.
>> Good morning, John.
>> It's good to see you. I think you've
touched on something really important.
We haven't had the leverage cycle yet,
have we?
>> That's right. I mean, we came into this
cycle with multi-deade lows in consumer
leverage and uh non-financial corporate
leverage, and that has kind of been our
northstar keeping us pretty glass half
full throughout throughout the cycle.
Um, yeah, it's it's difficult to get
worried about these, you know, systemic
credit risks or uh the consumer
absolutely falling apart when you have
not had that leverage build up yet.
>> Even Brammo Crested the bare thesis now.
So, so let's I'm sure you do. Do you
want to share it now or wait?
>> We can wait.
>> Okay. Do you want to share what yours
is? What is the most credible case now
for this bull market running out of
steam?
>> Yeah. I mean, I think the the one thing
we're all wondering about is the return
on investment in uh in AI capex, right?
And and it's difficult for any of us to
have an edge in this because we've never
seen it before. We don't know just how
transformational this technology is
going to be. It could end up being an
absolute gamecher for humanity. It could
be we're just putting out, you know,
funny videos that we've made up and and
sending around and and that's that. So,
um there's a lot of money that's being
spent. Uh and you know, there are
questions to be raised about the return
on that money in the data centers and on
the GPUs. Um and it's difficult to know
right now if that money is going to be
worth it, but I think, you know, we're
still early enough in that cycle um that
it's not a major concern just yet.
>> Yeah. Yeah, and this goes to the AWS uh
issue yesterday and a question around is
there going to be some sort of fissure
or uh inability to deliver on some of
the promises just by some of the
technical constraints they could
potentially torpedo some of these
valuations. How much is that part of
your short US dollar call?
>> Yeah, I mean the US dollar call is is
less about US equities being uh you know
a major a major concern or an end of US
exceptional. It's more just that we
think US rates are going to continue to
catch down to the rest of the world. Um
I think the reality is that we've got um
we're going to have a new Fed chair
coming in next year who is going to be
structurally more doubbish, right? And
uh and so that might mean that as the
economy recovers, should it recover as
we respect, actually doesn't need to
recover that much because it's hanging
in pretty well. But um you know, if the
economy is picking up, the labor
market's picking up and you're going to
get uh wage wages potentially rising
because labor constraints are are now
more in effect due to immigration
policy. Um is that new Fed chair going
to become less doubbish? uh thinking
about, you know, not cutting rates or
maybe even hiking rates next year. Um we
think the bias is that it's going to be
kind of a run it hot Fed and that's an
environment where real interest rates
remain low and the dollar weakens.
>> I just wonder how much uh a loss of Fed
independence is sort of embedded in this
call. The idea of go long equities
around the world, go long EM, go long
Japanese equities, go long US equities,
short the dollar, uh and overweight
gold. How much is this a bet that the
one loser is going to be debasement uh
and you can see everything else do okay?
>> Yeah, I mean I I I don't think it's a
it's a binary either or you know the Fed
is independent, the Fed is not uh
independent. And I think, you know, you
will have a dovish Fed chair um who will
keep rates, you know, potentially a bit
lower than Powell would have. Um and and
so on the margin that is going to be
more supportive of the kind of trades
that that you're mentioning. Um, but I
think if you have a chair that has
complete uh lack of credibility and I
think that's difficult to do given it's
still a committee the decision then um
you know that would be something that
that actually is more concerning and I
don't know if all of those trades risk
asset wise would do quite as well. You
ask me about the bear case.
>> Here we go.
>> Okay. The bear case to me has probably
more to do with AI and a question not
necessarily of some AI bubble in some of
the hyperscalers, but a question of
where else has the money gone and how
much do we get some sort of constraint
from? Whether it's energy or whether
it's some of these other areas that
start to not come through in the way
that people previously expected. How
close are we to that? Or do we have a
lot more to run before we even begin to
find out where the pockets of excess
really are? Yeah, I mean, uh, like I
said, in in in the overall, uh,
economywide, the leverage is is pretty
low. Um, the capex that we've seen, the
numbers are huge, but as a share of GDP,
they're actually not that big compared
to the tech bubble. We're talking about
less than 1% of GDP compared to, you
know, getting up to to 5% of GDP that we
saw in the in the tech bubble. We do
clearly have some constraints in terms
of the the grid and and energy and the
and the like, but you know, maybe that's
a good thing on some level and
constraining some of the uh like over
overbuilding and and the like. So, um so
yeah, I mean I think this this kind of
AI capback cycle still still has room
here.
>> You're optimistic on China tech as a way
to play the AI trade. How contingent on
that trade is it that these trade talks
go well? I think it matters. I think it
matters. Um, you know, we did see as
soon as the uh uh we had Trump's tweets
on on that Friday and and talking about
100% tariffs that China Tech the ETFs
were down, you know, 7%. So, it matters
for sentiment and the and the like over
the short term. Um but what we have seen
China do is that the more their export
controls on them, the more they kind of
find their own solutions and and develop
their own hardware and own access to to
GPUs and the like. And so I think over
the medium term uh you know those those
kind of trade scares are are an
opportunity to to get long China tech.
But long term, isn't the writing on the
wall that these two economies,
especially the technology sector, is
going to be further apart from each
other?
>> You know, there there will be a a
gradual uh strategic competition and and
and moving away, but there can't be a
complete divorce between the the US and
China's economy. I think Trump realize
that realizes that and she realizes that
that there's just too much pain to be
had on both sides to completely
decouple. So um you know I think the the
it's likely that you know China gives
something on the rare earths, US gives
something on the on the export controls
and and the tariffs and um they all
realize that the the downside scenario
is much more severe um than either of
them want to to agree to.
>> Evan, there appears to be a difference
in approach though. It's something
that's been discussed on this program.
In the US, these tech firms are
investing as if they're confronting
existential risk capacity investing
loads of money. Nvidia is really
benefiting. in China by necess by
necessary means they have to invest as
if they're facing existential risk.
Sure. One, but two, it seems to be about
efficiency over everything else. And
it's interesting to me that this year
we've moved on from deepseek pretty
quickly and deepseek was the efficiency
shock and then we moved on and we've
gone back to whatever we're doing in the
US. Is there approach that you favor at
the moment, the US versus say China? I
think you want to be long both
approaches and I think it's absolutely
fascinating that uh in the US we're
we're like let's get to AGI and super
intelligence as quickly as possible
whereas China whether because they they
can't due to the export controls or just
don't want to they're saying let's be as
efficient as possible with what we kind
of have and then let's focus on the
applications of it and so I think um you
know that that AGI race and winner takes
all race is something that's kind of
compelling on the US side even if you
know it might be carried to an an
extreme. Um, but I think China's
approach makes a lot of sense uh from a
kind of efficiency and monetization side
and so be be long both and and that's a
good diversified way to be in the AI
trade. Evan, it's good to see you. Evan
Brown of UBS. Thank you, sir. Breaking
things down on the tech side, the US
versus China. Things are so frothy out
there. Even France has hit a record
high. CAG 40 index surpassing a make
2024 record alltime high. This is just
an English France thing. you know,
that's all it is.
>> It's not actually anymore. Now it's kind
of the world the world France thing
considering the recent reputation.
>> Yeah. Not a great weekend. We were
talking about that yesterday.
>> Terrible weekend. Yeah. I mean, look,
this has been an ongoing difficult spot
in the world and it's sort of the weak
child now of Europe in many ways and for
them to reach record highs and they lost
the crown jewels.
>> We were talking about the French
museums.
>> Yes. Well, but but actually Okay. Well,
yes, the Lou. How much Where do people
sell jewels that they steal where
everybody knows where they're from?
>> Wall Street Journal has a great story on
this.
>> What did they say? how how difficult it
is, but how quickly you have to move if
you want to basically isolate, chop up
these jewels and then get them out to
the market.
>> Sometimes it's targeted like someone's
got to list them and these are the
things they want.
>> Okay. So maybe that's one of their own
private collection. Yeah. All I know is
that we'll be watching Oceans 25 for
this.
>> The Thomas Crown affair.
>> Yes, exactly.
>> Fantastic. I like that too.
>> Love that movie. The Pierce Brosman one
though.
>> Yeah, that was good. Okay, let's give an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Lizzie
Burton. Hey Lizzy. Ajan shares a GM
soaring after the auto maker raised its
fullear outlook and posted thirdarter
results that topped analyst expectations
on better thanex expected pickup truck
sales and fresh relief from the Trump
administration's tariffs on auto parts.
GM will also be reducing its EV
investment in a letter to shareholders
CEO Mary Bar saying it is now clear that
near-term EV adoption will be lower than
planned. Elsewhere, shares of Coca-Cola
higher after posting third quarter sales
growth that beat Wall Street
expectations, a sign that consumers
aren't shying away from the company's
beverages despite higher prices.
Coca-Cola reported organic revenue
growth of 6%, topping estimates, while
adjusted earnings per share also
outpaced expectations.
And in sports, the Toronto Blue Jays are
headed back to the World Series for the
first time since 1993
after a thrilling game seven win over
the Seattle Mariners. George Springer
hit a go-ahead three-run home run in the
seventh inning on the way to the 4-3
victory. They'll be facing Shayotani and
the LA Dodgers who are looking to become
the first repeat champions since the
Yankees in 2000. And that should be my
brief. John,
>> touchy subject over here, Lizzy. Thank
you. Thanks for the update. Up next on
the program, mining for new deals.
>> We are discussing uh critical minerals
and rare earths and we're going to be
signing an agreement that's been
negotiated over a period of four or five
months. In about a year from now, we'll
have so much critical mineral and rare
earths that you won't know what to do
with them.
>> That conversation up next with Monica
Aguero of Morgan Stanley live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Stocks just about unchanged. Turning
positive briefly on the S&P 500 going
nowhere on the NASDAQ on the Russell
pulling back by just a tenth of 1%. A
better tone to this equity market in the
last 24 hours. last week worried about
credit risk particularly around the
regional lenders. That was Thursday into
Friday morning. That fear has really
subsided particularly with decent
earnings coming from Zion after the
close yesterday. So the tone doing a
little bit better. The focus now on
earnings. GM was okay. Likewise on
Coca-Cola. So far so good.
>> And we get Western Alliance later today
also that might give another read on
just how much these cockroaches are real
or whether they are worries that people
have. Uh look, right now we are seeing
an economy that still is strong and it's
going to be bolstered by rate cuts and
we're not necessarily having any other
data. So why wouldn't the market
continue to melt up on the back of this?
>> That's the latest on Wall Street. For
the latest down in Washington DC under
Suranders this morning, mining for new
deals.
>> We're here to talk about trade, uh
submarines, lots of other military
equipment. We are discussing uh critical
minerals and rare earths and we're going
to be signing an agreement that's been
negotiated over a period of four or five
months. In about a year from now, we'll
have so much critical mineral and rare
earths that you won't know what to do
with them. They'll be worth about $2.
But uh in the meantime, we're working uh
with Australia and and other countries.
They're working with us, too.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump making a deal
with Australia to boost America's access
to rare earths. It's an attempt to
counter China's dominance over the
issue. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins
us now from Washington with more. Tyler,
what precisely has been agreed between
the two countries?
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Good morning. So, this
is actually considered to be a landmark
agreement appearing to make Australia
the US's partner of choice when it comes
to mineral projects. It's an estimated $
8.5 billion deal that will see the US
and Australia jointly invest in critical
and rare earth mineral mining, but also
processing projects in Australia.
Australia has also pledged to invest in
US defense companies. There are still
big questions here on how concrete the
agreement is and how long it will take
to implement, but it is widely seen as a
win for Australia, which has been trying
to ink such a deal at this point for
months. Because up to this point, the
administration has really been focused
on these domestic projects. Think MP
Materials or Trilogy Metals. Which is
why our own analysts at Bloomberg
Economics say that this really does mark
the first real tangible effort by the
Trump administration to partner with a
credible ally for help in this sector.
And while the agreement itself is
between the US and Australia, it also is
calling for this broader coalition to
come together to agree on a fair
standards and also pricing mechanisms
all in a bid, of course, to compete with
China because that's what's really
hanging over the backdrop here as we
head into next week and this critical
meeting between President Trump and
Chinese President Xi Jinping. John, as
you all know and discuss on this program
all the time, China has a major grip on
the industry. had accounted for more
than 70% of rare earth global supply
last year alone.
>> Tana Kender with the latest down in
Washington. Tana, thank you. With us
around a table, Monica Quer of Morgan
Stanley. Monica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> China's flexed and it's flexed and the
whole world has listened and arguably
maybe even brought the likes of
Australia and America closer together.
Was that a strategic mistake going into
negotiations later this month? I think
what's interesting about this deal is
that China's response was actually
constructive on paper, right? They were
actually positive, saying, you know,
yeah, join the join the party on on rare
earth. That was really surprising to me.
That tells me that they're not worried.
That takes it's going to take at least 5
to seven years, maybe longer, to have
this whole initiative ramp up. A lot can
change in that time. Doesn't mean that
this isn't going to be a positive for
the US. I think more, you know, players
at the table is ultimately long-term a
benefit, but this isn't a zero, you
know, end game here.
>> So, going into this meeting, it sounds
like, do you think China has the
leverage?
>> Um, I would say that both parties,
right, need each other. We're thinking
about our our combined economies. They
don't want a 100% tariff on all of their
goods. That's an issue for them, but
they don't really need to worry about
this move on rare earths. I think that
they're going to be focusing on the
other components. China is still uh the
in charge of 90% or more, right, of that
market. So, this isn't a now issue. It's
going to make them have to focus on all
these other factors that could impact
their import export relationship. To
Jonathan's point, China though flexing
its muscles on rare earths, is it giving
the Trump administration an excuse to
continue making these deals where they
take outright equity stakes in mining
companies?
I'm not I'm not going to speak to that,
right? To that piece. I think, you know,
we were all surprised by the other
outright stakes in in US companies. Now,
as far as the the mining company
component, we're going to continue to
see foreign direct investment, right,
directed out of the US in order to make
these deals happen, what's going to be
interesting is as we build out our
relationship with Australia and China,
it's like where do we land on that on
that final tariff number? And I think
that again when we go back to actually
the beginning of the year that you could
see something that's in that 30 to 40%
range if we're going to go back to those
campaign promises.
>> Do you think that's where we end with
China say 2026? We're kind of there now
on some products
>> on some products. I think you know you
could see an increase on those section
301 tariffs. You could see more on you
know section 232. The other ang piece
here, right, that we have to really
appreciate is the US's reliance on that
tariff revenue from a fiscal policy
perspective and the fact that we're in
the middle of trying to even determine
if we can have the IPA tariffs in place
and once we get that it's going to be
that patchwork on section 301, section
232 and others, right, to try to make us
whole from a fiscal policy perspective.
So I would say from China's lens, yes,
maybe they have they definitely have the
advantage on rare earth. Is there
something at stake for them big time,
right? When we're thinking about that
relationship, but the US also has to
think about their fiscal policy future
and trying to find that sweet spot. So
given that concern and that hang-up and
that frankly support to uh the debt
market, how much of a risk case is it if
the Supreme Court overrules the tariffs
that have been put on and forces the
administration to scramble and cobble
together another sort of regime of
tariffs to plug that fiscal gap? Well,
they're already working on it. So for
example, section 232 tariffs, you have
to have studies put in place. Those
prior to the shutdown were in the works.
And so I think we need to get through
this shutdown period in order to see
some of those puzzle pieces come into
play. I think markets are right to
assume that there will be some tariff
revenue coming in at the end of the day.
It's just what how much and that's going
to be the big question. If they get a
negative ruling, there will likely be a
market response, right? That's that's
natural. That's going to be a normal
course of action, but soon to be
backfilled with all those other tariff
pieces that they've been, you know,
working on heavily. We got GM earnings
earlier this morning and it showed that
the tariff mitigation plans have been
working and have offset a great deal of
any extra cost. In general, earnings
have been pretty positive across the
board. Is the takeaway that the tariffs
are manageable and that frankly
companies are adjusting and adapting and
it wasn't a big as big of a hit. Even if
the tariffs go in and remain as such,
it's not as big of a hit for the
underlying profitability momentum of the
United States as expected earlier this
year. I think that the full pull through
right of impact of tariffs hasn't been
seen yet. So while I think that the GM
reporting is a positive sign that we're
finding a sweet spot here, one of the
key things we have to focus on is this
patchwork, you know, component of
tariffs and what that's going to mean
for the consumer in other areas. So
while they might have found that sweet
spot with GM and the auto industry, can
they do it across the board when we're
thinking about all goods and services?
That's to be seen and you know we'll
we'll uh you know get more information
in November.
>> What channel are you and a team focused
on prices or through the labor market
cost cuts?
>> Um we're focusing on labor market right
now especially as it relates to uh the
shutdown because this is a really
interesting period. Typically when you
have a shutdown, right, people get laid
off and then they get brought back and
so that furlow period you essentially
get made whole. Doesn't have a major
impact long term. Now, this is different
because we don't know how many employees
are actually going to be brought back
and so that could have an additional
drag, especially when we're thinking
about those inflationary factors.
>> Monica, good to see you. Thanks for
being here. Monica Guerrero of Morgan
Stanley. It is different this time.
We've heard that a few times already.
>> And also the fact that now you see
Washington preparing for maybe being in
a shutdown longer than November 21st.
Talk about labor market data. We're not
going to get also the clarity of that
data given the fact that a lot of these
workers are not deemed essential. So
they're not out there collecting these
surveys. But when you have the Senate
majority leader saying, "Yeah, maybe
Speaker Johnson needs to bring
Republicans back. So we need to extend
the date on the CR." This looks like an
administration and Republicans in
Congress preparing for a shutdown that
maybe will go past the record we had in
2018 2019 of 35 days.
>> Didn't get the jobs data for September.
Probably not getting it for October
anytime soon. It's going to threaten
November, too.
>> Yeah. And all we're going to get is CPI
which is probably going to come in hot.
So go square that with the idea of rate
cuts
>> and a bond market rallying into that
too.
>> I mean everything about this is
>> some real tension out there.
>> I mean market only can focus on one
thing at a time.
>> It's true. Coming up on the program,
General Motor CFO Paul Jacobson with a
big earnings beat. Plus Yahara's got
your morning movers. Coca-Cola shares
rising on earnings and a resilient
consumer.
[Music]
Earnings pretty decent so far this
morning. More on that in just a moment.
Equity futures, your scores just about
unchanged on the S&P 500. Big two-day
gain on the S&P. The biggest we've seen
since June on the NASDAQ 100 just about
unchanged so far this Tuesday morning.
With your morning movers, let's cross
over to Yhira for more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We have a slew of earnings to
get through. We start with GM. Shares
are rising 9% in the pre-market. It was
a beat in a race for the automaker after
red-hot demand for its trucks and SUVs
helped offset tariff pressure. And CEO
Mary Bar is giving credit to President
Donald Trump because those tariffs were
not as bad as expected due to some
discounts. And moving on to GE
Aerospace. Those shares are up 1 and
a4%. The jet engine maker just raised
its outlook for a second straight
quarter and that's thanks to booming
demand for air travel which fueled
demand for new engines and maintenance
work. Remember CEO Larry Culp broke up
the company and the changes are gaining
traction with those shares up 80% this
year. And we end on Coca-Cola. Another
positive earning story. Shares are up
2.8% 8% after it topped third quarter
sales expectations as shoppers continued
buying across its beverage lineup. And
it was the small and it was it smaller
sized bottles and cans that helped lift
sales showing that consumers are still
buying but choosing slightly cheaper
options as the cost of living remains an
issue. John
>> Yhara, thank you. The stock is high by
close to 4% so far this morning. On our
radar this morning, the vice president
JD Vance arriving in Israel today. He's
said to meet with the prime minister
Netanyahu in an effort to shore up the
fragile Gaza ceasefire deal between
Israel and Hamas. The vice president
will hold a news conference at 11:00
a.m. Eastern time this morning.
Elsewhere, a group of US banks behind
the 20 billion Argentina bailout is
looking for collateral. The Wall Street
Journal reporting the group, which
includes JP Morgan and Bank of America,
is struggling to finalize the loan
without leaving themselves on the hook.
And finally, Amazon Web Services
resolving all issues related to Monday's
15-hour outage. The company blaming a
malfunctioning digital directory for the
disruption. The outage affecting
hundreds of sites including financial
services and gaming companies.
>> This is about a third of web services
around the world. And it raises this
question of how fragile some of these
companies could be if they rely all on
one cloud computing service. It raises a
question about the systemic import of
some of these companies and how how much
companies are willing to pay extra in
order to duplicate some of those efforts
and maybe diversify. a real question
here about how much we're hinging oursel
in something that really hasn't been
fully secured
>> and right on target. You have
individuals in Washington like the
senator of Massachusetts, Elizabeth
Warren, saying this just proves a point
that big tech is monopoly and need to be
broken up.
>> Sometimes it's very predictable in
Washington, isn't it? Like we could
write the letters for them sometimes
based on who they are.
>> Yeah, but at a certain point they have
to have enough size and scope in order
to be be able to provide these services.
We've been talking about the inability
to fuel it through some of the energy
sources and then you're going to say
they're too big. I mean, pick one. I
mean that. Okay.
>> He's got the drafts ready to go.
>> Yeah. I mean, we just need to go back to
>> from Massachusetts just has the draft
ready to go. Something malfunctions in
big tech. It's like send
>> Monopoly one.
>> Yeah. Every single time. All right.
Amazon up by 210 of 1%. Let's turn back
to earnings. Shares of General Motors
jumping after the company beat earnings
and raised guidance. The GM CFO Paul
Jacobson joins us now for more. Paul,
the stock is up by more than 9%. We'll
spend some time talking about the
numbers, but I just wanted to take a
step back with you just for a brief
moment. You've got real experience
navigating volatile industries,
experience in the airline business, and
experience in the automaker business,
too. You took over as CFO in the
pandemic. Can you talk to us about this
year, Paul? Just how agile have you and
the team needed to be, and how volatile
have things been, too?
>> Well, Jonathan, first of all, thank you
very much for having us. It's a great
day to be at GM and celebrate the
success of uh all of our employees and
partners worldwide. So, really
appreciate uh you being here today uh
having me today. So, you know, at the
end of the day, it's it's it's just
another change. I mean, since uh coming
to GM uh in 2020, we we've gone through
COVID, we've gone through chip shortage,
we've gone through tariffs, uh we've
gone through EV pivots and and so on.
But what we've really tried to do is
create a model that is resilient. And
when you look at our balance sheet, you
look at our inventory discipline and the
way we've gone to market, um there's a
lot of things that have changed that
allow us to be able to react to the
world around us faster. Uh and I think
that's that's uh paved the way for us to
have a uh another really strong year in
the face of a lot of macro changes.
>> Paul, in order to increase resilience
and maybe agility, do you have to
sacrifice long-term planning? Is that
something that becomes harder?
Well, you know, I think what we what
we've really done uh well as a team, I
think, is we've kept focus on that
long-term vision. So, you know, for
example, while we've taken a charge on
uh reducing some of our EV capacity,
reflecting the demand that's out there,
we still believe that EVs are the
future. Um and uh we think that there's
an opportunity for us to take a little
bit of a pause in in demand growth that
we've seen over the last few years,
structurally improve it, rightsize our
capacity, and make sure that we can be
successful as more and more customers
adopt it. So it's just an example of how
we make sure that we're managing the
short term within the face of that
longer term vision. So what have been
the big steps Paul that you've taken in
order to remain agile particularly with
supply chains and removing uh any kind
of direct input from China in
particular. How much have you rejiggered
how where you get your goods? Well, I
think we learned a lot um in industry
from COVID and uh and a focused supply
chain that was really susceptible to
individualized shocks and I think we've
taken the effort to try to make sure
that we diversify our uh our supply
chain base. Uh we've made a number of
investments for example in battery raw
materials and and other materials in the
US uh in addition to the $4 billion that
we've uh announced this year to increase
our US manufacturing capacity. So I I
think it's been a case of making sure
that that's balanced. And then when we
went through the chip crisis uh of 2021,
there were some more challenges about
making sure that we expand the places
where some of our chips are fabricated
and our supply base that we use. So this
has just been part of it. Um I think
we've learned a lot of lessons over the
last 5 years that have helped us and
positioned us well to be able to thrive
in uh everchanging circumstances like we
see right now. All of this costs a lot
of money and I'm just trying to get my
head around, we've all been trying to
get our head around where it comes from
these extra costs in order to rejigger
supply chains to offset any kind of
increased costs that might come along
the way. How much is coming from whether
it's freezing uh labor forces or
trimming around the edges? How much is
coming from higher prices uh on consumer
vehicles?
Well, I think if you look at um what GM
has done, we we've saved a lot of money
by rationalizing our uh inventory
balances. So, we used to keep probably
about 40% more inventory on the ground
uh at our dealerships um uh around the
country. And uh we've we've cut that
down. That's frees up a lot of working
capital to be able to invest and
redeploy back into the business. But it
also makes sure that we can change uh
much more quickly to changing demand uh
around us. So, uh, our pricing has been
stabilized. And I think that's given us
a little bit more comfort to invest a
little bit more than what we have
historically, but still making sure that
we're very disciplined, uh, with our
capital allocation because we still have
opportunities to pay down debt and also
return capital to shareholders. So, it's
that balanced approach that I think has
really paved the way for our success.
>> Paul, you and your colleagues in the
industry recently had a big win in
Washington. and a little bit of reprieve
when it comes to the arrangement on the
timeline for the tariff costs for
imported auto parts. What else are you
asking in terms of tariff relief from
Washington?
>> Well, you know, I think I want to praise
the administration for really listening
to the to the concerns of the industry
and making sure that they're helping us
to be positioned to be really successful
as uh one of the largest US industrial
uh producers that are out there. And the
announcements that were made Friday uh
essentially take what had already been
done by the administration in the spring
and expands it a little bit to be able
to use those MSRP offsets on a wider
variety of parts that we're bringing
into the country. And as a result of
that, we were able to lower our total
tariff forecast um for the year by about
half a billion dollars from where we um
uh started the year. And I think it's
that proactive partnership in terms of
really making sure that we can remain
competitive uh and help to drive more
investment into the US, which we've
done.
>> So, do you expect more reprieves,
especially as the US goes into
negotiations next year with Mexico and
Canada?
>> Well, I think what we're looking for is
is a little bit of stability. Obviously,
this year has been a bit of a transition
year. Um, you know, for us, the uh the
the handshake deal that we have with
Korea, we're really eager to get that
finalized. Um, we do have some
production of some of our lowerc cost
models um, in Korea that that help with
some of the affordability concerns of
our consumers here in the US. Um, but
also obviously Mexico and Canada are
going to be really important to us. But
as we look at those deals being
finalized and we start to look into
2026, we think that there's actually an
opportunity for us to do better in 2026
than we've done in 2025 and start to
work our way back up to those 8 to 10%
targeted margins that we set for
ourselves before the tariffs uh were put
in place.
>> Paul, just finally, can we stay in Asia
and finish on China? Paul, for a long
time, we've said on this program, this
must be the most competitive market on
the planet in any industry. How
difficult is it to operate in that
country right now? And how much harder
is it going to get in the future for US
automakers like yourself?
>> You know, about a year ago, Jonathan, we
we undertook a pretty ambitious
restructuring program in China with the
realization that, you know, we were
probably not going to be as big in China
as we have been historically going
forward with the amount of just
tremendous competition that's in the
country going forward. But, you know,
together with our partners, um, we were
able to restructure that business and
we've been profitable, um, every quarter
this year and and look to be able to
sustain that. So, it's it's really about
making sure that we're rightsized for
where we are. We've got great products
over there. We've got a long legacy and
we've got a good partnership that I
think has has really paved the way. And
with that work that the team did in
China, really proud of what they
accomplished and think we can be
sustainable there.
>> Paul, appreciate your insight and your
experience as always, sir. Paul Jacobson
there, the General Motors CFO at beat in
a raise from their company. Stock is
higher in the pre-market by around 9%.
$80 million in China in the latest
quarter. That's what GM made. That's a
turnaround. That's important.
>> And it was actually better than expected
and they've been trying to rightsize
that team. It's sort of a difficult
dance between uh both investing in that
nation and also navigating the sort of
tit fortat between the two countries at
a time where both countries are really
prioritizing their domestic champions.
Three completely different markets
completely right now. You've sort of got
China going one way, the US going
another, Europe stuck in between, and
these global players trying to work out
what product sells best where.
>> Yeah. And exactly what the future's
going to be, too. It's sort of the Craig
Trudeell kind of view of the world.
Near-term, it might make sense in one
region to get out of EVs or to go into
EVs long-term. What is the ultimate
goal? And that, I think, is less clear
right now than it was at least uh what
the uh lip service was maybe a year ago.
>> GM this morning higher by around 9%. And
let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Lizzie Burton. Hey
Lizzy.
>> Hey John. President Donald Trump and
Australian Prime Minister Anthony
Albanzy have signed an agreement to
boost production of critical rare earth
minerals in Australia. The two
governments will invest more than a
billion dollars over the next 6 months
for initial projects. Both pledging to
protect their domestic markets from
unfair trade practices. Elsewhere, the
US government shutdown is in its 21st
day after the Senate failed for an 11th
time to advance a house pass measure to
fund the government. The impact is being
felt across the federal workforce.
Senate staffers were told they'll no
longer be paid for the rest of the
shutdown and the federal agency
overseeing the US nuclear stockpile,
furlowing most of its workforce. And
parts of the White House's East Wing
have been demolished as construction
begins on President Donald Trump's new
ballroom. Trump announced the
construction in a social media post
saying for more than 150 years, every
president has dreamt about having a
ballroom at the White House to
accommodate people for grand parties and
state visits. And that's your brief,
John.
>> Lizzie, thanks for the update. More from
Lizzie in about 30 minutes time. Up next
on the program, the last clean inflation
report.
>> This coming CPI report, this one on
Friday, is likely to be one of the
better ones. What's going to be more
worrisome is uh next month uh or
whenever whenever the shutdown ends as
people come uh back from uh to the BLS
the data desert get a drip of water on
Friday CPI after that I don't know what
comes next and when it drops from New
York City you're watching Bloomberg
thing
[Music]
live from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Equity futures on the S&P 500
just about unchanged on the NASDAQ going
absolutely nowhere. Snoozy on the
Russell, too. We finally get some data
later this week. CPI coming up on Friday
under surveillance this morning. The
last clean inflation report.
>> This coming CPI report, this one on
Friday, it's likely to be one of the
better ones. They uh these individuals
were not actually uh on furlow for all
that long. So, they're not that far
behind schedule. What's going to be more
worrisome is uh next month uh or
whenever whenever the shutdown ends. as
people come uh back from uh to the BLS,
even if the shutdown were to end today
and people were to come back tomorrow,
they're already going to have to ask
about stuff that have happened
retroactively.
>> Here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking ahead to this week's
CPI report, an oasis in the data desert.
And I tell you, based on this government
shutdown chat with Amarie and everyone
down in Washington DC, might be a while
before we ever see an employment report.
I mean honestly at this point there
seems like an incentive once it gets
past November just to keep on going. In
the meantime the earnings have been
pretty good and yet people still have
confidence that the Fed is going to cut
rates and this coming from Edard Denny
overnight and I thought this was
interesting. He said that he thinks that
10-year treasuries could hit 3.75%.
Why? Because the Fed's cutting and oil
prices and that's the key. Oil prices
keep going down and that will keep a lid
on anything potentially. When it comes
to the shutdown though, what this
administration is doing is trying to
mitigate all the pressure points.
There's an article yesterday in
political. They're trying to find ways
to pay air traffic controllers because
remember 2019, that was the sticking
point. That was the day Trump caved
because there was a ton of flight delays
going into Orlando, New York City,
really big airports, and it was starting
to, you know, really hurt citizens
getting crunched. They're trying to find
ways cuz they're they're preparing for
protracted shutdown.
>> The Federal Reserve, they're essential
workers apparently. We're told we've got
that confirmed. They meet this time next
week. A two-day meeting with very little
economic data and the prospect of a big
change at the top of the Federal Reserve
in May of next year. Joining us in the
last week, Governor Waller, a candidate
to be the next chief of the Fed. We
talked to him about leadership and his
view on what's happening in the economy
right now. Take a listen.
>> How's the process going? Let's start
there and then we can get into all the
other good stuff. How's the interview
process going?
>> Uh, it's going well. As far as I can
tell, the secretary has a very
systematic way of going down the list
and doing the interviews. Uh, as I said
the other week, I had a great interview
with with Secretary Bessant. Um, talked
a lot about economics, Fed policy, the
Fed, balance sheet, just general stuff
in the economy and financial markets.
Uh, it went very quick. It was about an
hour and 45 minutes and next thing I
knew it was over. So, it was it was a
great conversation. Of course, I love
those kind of conversations. I can do
that all day long.
>> The Treasury Secretary spoken about in
the past. He wants almost a visionary,
someone who looks forward like an Allen
Greenspan type, open-minded. Do you get
a sense of what he means by that?
>> I think it's the idea of if you're
looking at the data and it's always
looking back at the data, you're kind
the data is always kind of old and you
have to think forward like where are you
going with this stuff? Uh, I've managed
to do that a couple of times with
thinking about this beverage curve
argument back in May of 22 that we could
have the soft landing earlier this
summer with the weakness in the labor
market which turned out to be true.
People doubted it at the time I said it
but so I think it's I don't want to you
know brag but you know it's that kind of
being able to look at the data and see
forward where things are going and I
think that's a critical thing he's
looking for.
>> You were certainly vindicated. The
president was obviously excited about
the fact the Fed finally was cutting
interest rates. Have you spoken to him
at all?
>> No, I have not. I have not.
>> Is that on the schedule?
>> I don't know. That's up to Secretary
Bessant.
>> We're going to find out soon. Hopefully.
We'll talk to the man himself, the
Treasury Secretary, hopefully later on
in a month. I want to talk about the
meeting that takes place at the end of
this month as well. You were pretty
clear going into the last meeting. You
delivered a speech and I believe the
title was let's get on with it. Are you
advocating for the same thing at this
meeting? Yeah, I think it's it's uh the
right thing to do. Back then, there was
a issue of whether you go 50 or 25. And
I thought I argued we could do 25 and
see how the data comes in. Of course,
we're not getting much data and then we
can think about the next 25. So, in the
last 6 weeks, I don't think a lot has
changed. We're not getting the public
data, but all the private sector data
that we're getting, Beigebook yesterday,
everything we're getting is telling
roughly the same story. The labor
market's weak. Um growth seems to be on
the stronger side which is a bit of a
puzzle right now. U because you can't
have a really strong growing economy and
negative job growth or zero job growth.
And you know people talk about
productivity but AI hasn't had that
effect yet on the labor market or
productivity. It will down the road I
think but not not right away. So I don't
think that's the story that's driving
it. So in that case one of these things
has to move right. Either GDP numbers
start coming back down or the labor
market rebounds. You just can't have
growing economy and you know very weak
labor market. They just don't go
together.
>> In the meantime, do you just continue to
reduce interest rates meeting by meeting
as you wait to see what's going on?
What's your overall approach and you
think about that?
>> That's that's exactly what I've been
arguing is since we don't know which way
this is going to break. If the labor
market rebounds, there's less of
pressure for cutting rates. If the
growth comes back down, there's more
pressure for cutting rates. You don't
want to make a mistake. So the way to
avoid that is to go, you know,
cautiously or carefully and do 25, wait
and see what happens and then you can
get a better idea of what to do. But if
you've already started the process,
you're providing whatever initial
support for the labor market that you
feel is necessary.
>> So we've had this obvious step down in
payroll growth. It's pretty clear.
>> It feels like that alone though might be
an outlier compared to everything else
that's going on in the economy. You
yourself just acknowledged that. What do
you think is behind that and can that
persist?
You know, that's the thing. When I've
talked to private sector CEOs about
hiring, I mean, we typically get a
couple things. Maybe early part of the
summer, we there was a lot of
uncertainty about tariffs. We're just
holding off on doing anything. One of
the things I heard is firms were going
to have to pay the tariffs. One easy way
to do that is just not hire, take all
the labor savings to pay off whatever
the tariffs were. So, that was one
thing. Um then you had this AI story
which was people like we don't know if
we're going to need to hire but we're
going to wait and find out. We're going
to we're not going to go out and hire a
lot of people right away. So I think
tariff uncertainty paying for tariffs
trying to sort out what AI really is
going to do kind of put firms on their
their back foot. Now that's what I mean.
Either they decide the AI is not going
to be in the near term the big uh job
replacement that they thought and
they're going to have to start hiring
and it comes back. tariff uncertainty
goes down. Um, all of those things could
lead to a rebound. Uh, on the other
hand, you know, if GDP starts softening,
it's not as strong as we think that
somehow the data is a kind of a mirage
right now. Then the labor market is
telling you things are just not as good
as you think. Now, the financial markets
are the big puzzle. I mean, I I'm not
the only one. How much of this is just a
big boom in AI and everything else is
marginal? Um there's I've kind of been
arguing there's a big difference between
the financial conditions for corporate
America and financial conditions for
Main Street America. If you're Main
Street America, you're looking at
mortgages over 6%, very expensive
housing, car loans over 7%, credit card
interest rates in the 20s. These are not
loose financial conditions for American
households. So when we look at the
financial market, you're seeing a lot of
when people talk about credit spreads
and all that. I don't think most
American households care what the credit
spread between corporates and treasuries
are. that doesn't really unless it shows
up in mortgages. So I think there's this
one of the things that I find kind of
puzzling right now is there just always
these dichotoies between things. If you
look at AI, if you take out anything
data center AI related, business fix
investment is turning down. It's not
it's not widespread. All this investment
is not widespread across. There's a real
reallocation from kind of everything
else into AI. So there's this
bifurcation in so many ways that that
make kind of reading the economy tough
right now. How much influence do you
have on one versus the other? Financial
conditions on Main Street versus Wall
Street. Wall Street's immediate. Wall
Street's gone. It's fell off to the
races. Can you really influence
financial conditions on Main Street?
>> Well, that's kind of what we hope. If
you think about cutting rates, which
we're doing and I think we'll continue
doing that does have a pass through to
the tenure. And the tenure is often the
anchor for pricing mortgages. So, the
tenure is down to like 4%. It's come
down from 4 and a.5. That's about a half
a percent off. If it were to continue
drifting below four, you'll start seeing
some downward pressure for uh certainly
mortgages. Auto loans are kind of a
different thing. They're trying to
figure out how to deal with tariffs on
the auto industry. One thing I've heard
is they got rid of a lot of cheap
financing that they used to subsidize
for consumers. That's going to raise the
cost of financing. All these things are
more tightening for mainstream America.
So hopefully these things as we go on
through the rest of year start loosening
up some. Governor Chris Waller of the
Federal Reserve and potential Fed chief
May of next year on the economy and
what's happening. All these dichotoies,
these contradictions that we've been
discussing on this program. The fact you
can have employment drop off the way it
has, but retail sales have remained
solid. The fact that people can freak
out about what's happening with credit
issues, but bank earnings are absolutely
fantastic. We're all grappling with the
same thing right now.
>> And it seems like the Fed doesn't have
an edge on it and they don't have the
data. And yet what they are seeing is a
labor market that is deteriorating and
the K shape that some people reject but
other people see uh as being one that
they need to cater to and they want to
amilarate some of the issues for people
on the lower end of the income spectrum.
>> And even if we get this hot CPI, they're
going to look through it and they're
going to continue to look through it as
you've been talking about really for
months. Jonathan, 2026 is going to be so
challenging for the Fed because you're
going to have to potentially deal with
hotter inflation and a brand new regime
when it comes to the head of the Federal
Reserve
>> and a bond market's rallying into it.
It's a very intriguing moment in fixed
income at the moment. Coming up on the
program, we'll catch up with Judy Beal
of Kane Addison Rdnik, Alicia Ree of
Wedburst. We'll catch up with Lorina
Uriici of Tro Price and the CEO of Atlas
Merchant Capital, Bob Diamond.
The key point for growth really is how
these tech stocks are doing.
>> The AI momentum in the near term looks
pretty solid.
>> If there's any slippage in earnings from
the tech guys, I think you're going to
see a more wobbly, more volatile market.
>> This is a very what we're calling a
high-risk bull market.
>> I'm very bullish. I think the market
goes to new highs before Thanksgiving.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh. Lisa Abramowitz and An
Marie Hordern.
>> The opening bound 19 minutes away. Live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning from our audience
worldwide. The third hour of Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Your
scores look like this. Just about
positive on the S&P 500 following two
days of gains on the benchmark. The
biggest two-day rally since June on the
S&P 500, leaving behind the credit fears
for now at least. Solid earnings across
the board from Zions overnight. We saw
it from Coca-Cola and General Motors
already this morning. Later on, we'll be
catching up with Netflix. And you'll
hear from Western Alliance.
>> Yeah. Do you get the same sort of
confirmation that the economy is solid,
that the credit problems are less uh
concerning than maybe some people feared
and everything is a go? People have been
looking for things to worry about and so
far the earnings have not given them
that node of anxiety that they otherwise
would have uh gotten. And what you're
seeing is really resilience both in
corporate uh earnings, corporate
expenditures as well as in consumer
spending. And that continues to be the
theme. It's a breath of fresh air as the
world is trying to figure out and
investors trying to figure out what is
going on with the tariff policy going
into this meeting with China as we don't
have tier one data coming out of
Washington except for what's going to be
the CPI print. Zions is talking about
that this was an incident isolated
incident not idiosyncratic isolated
because Jonathan hates that word. And
then GM is talking about the fact that
they are able to weather the storm of
whipssaw changing policy in Washington.
Whether it's tariffs, whether it's
emissions, or whether it's whether or
not they're going to EV subsidies or
not.
>> Give credit to some of these management
teams. Give a ton of credit to them. So
Vita Rammani with Bank of America said
it a long time ago. Never underestimate
corporate America. the agility of these
management teams through getting whipsed
after one political cycle to the other
from Biden to Trump on things like EVs
and tariffs and they're still making
money the way they are.
>> Yeah. And if you think about it, it mean
Paul Jacobson of GM in the last hour
talking about how he came in during the
pandemic and he had to manage supply
chains during that moment and they
learned a lot from that. Look, they were
also the ones corporate America that
turned out their balance sheets in a way
that the United States did not. And so
they've been more resilient to the uh
Fed rate cycle in addition to everything
else and it's the reason why people are
wondering well even if they report
earnings that are really good does that
really represent the rest of the economy
because we have seen that split in a
growing way.
>> Increasing agility adaptability are you
sacrificing long-term planning? Are you
at the mercy of the next political
cycle? General Motors would obviously
push back to some of that but that's
certainly a question we've got to ask.
>> We're dealing with that right now when
it comes to rare earth. China has the
entire control of the supply chain. They
have the rare earths. They can process
them. They refine them. They can ship
the magnets. They doubled down the CCP
when it came to rare earths decades ago.
They're doing the same exact thing when
it comes to EVs, which the United States
is flip-flopping back and forth every
four years. China is doubling down. At
some point, China is going to say to EV
car makers, GM, Tesla, who it may be,
you cannot buy our battery. You have to
buy our car. and they are going to
become the superpower when it comes to
EV car making and shipping.
>> General Motors this morning higher in
the pre-market by more than 10%. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Judy
Beal of Kane Anderson Runick with the
latest market rally on pause. Alicia
Reese of Wed Bush ahead of earnings from
Netflix later on today and the former
Barclay's boss Bob Diamond the CEO. He's
going to join us as he remains bullish
on regional banking. We begin this hour
with stocks flat as Wall Street awaits
another round of earnings. Julie Bill of
Kane Addison Rodnick writes, "Inves
investors will continue to overlook
government shutdowns and geopolitical
tensions as long as corporate
profitability is strong." Julie joins us
now for more. Judy, welcome back. You've
talked about this a million times, too.
How impressive is the adaptability of
management teams across corporate
America.
>> I I agree. I I think your sentiment is
exactly right. If you think of
everything that has been thrown at them,
it's it's not just right tariffs, right?
It's pandemics, it's supply shutdowns,
it's huge swings in demand, huge swings
in policy. They've really been able to
put their ingenuity to good work.
Imagine actually how productive they
could have been if we didn't have
tariffs, right? How they could have
really used their ingenuity in good
ways. But that's neither here nor there.
>> Julie, are you seeing this across market
caps? Is this something that just
management teams at large cap America
can handle well and small caps can't? Or
are you seeing this across the board? I
I think we're starting to see that small
caps really struggled with inflation in
a way that large caps had more pricing
power and they were much better able to
maintain their margins. And then the
bigger issue for small caps was they
were not able to borrow long with you
know fixed with fixed rate interest for
them. They've been on variable rate debt
and they've really struggled under that.
I think we've reached the peak of their
interest rate costs rising and now we're
in a place where they can finally start
to have some earnings expansion just
based off of that.
>> Do you think that's been priced in or do
you think that that's an upside in the
months uh months to come?
>> You know, I think what's interesting
right in this rally in small caps is
that it's been very localized in super
high beta stocks and stocks that don't
have earnings. So that's biotech and
quantum. the rest of the kind of higher
quality scale really hasn't gotten to
participate in this rally in small cap
in the same kind of way and so I
actually don't think it's reflected
everywhere in the same but of course I'm
going to say that I'm an active small
cap manager and I'm going to say that
you need to be selective
>> you know I'm trying to square this idea
that you're seeing profits reacelerate
in some small caps that you're seeing
earnings from the large caps come in
better than expected the increase in
fullear expectations that we're seeing
pretty much across the board and yet one
manager after another is saying you have
to be cautious, you have to move up in
quality, you've got to be prepared for
the next shoe to drop. Why can you
square those sort of distinctions? The
idea that we're seeing real optimism
from the seauite at the same time that
fund managers are looking for something
to get nervous about.
>> I I think it's connected to the labor
market. I think we kind of all recognize
that the part of the reason why we have
had such a strong economy is that we
have a consumer who is so willing to go
out there and spend money and that has
really propped up a lot of this economy
in a really major way. If we lose that
as we're starting to see some
degradation and the consumer strength at
the low income, it really does ripple
through this economy when so much of it
is driven off the health of what the
retail consumer is doing. So I think
that's where people have a lot of
anxiety. And look, how many articles are
you going to read about a bubble in AI
and not start to be a little bit worried
when you have valuations as stretched as
they are?
>> Julie, not just a bubble. You call it
the AI pixie dust that is basically
floating around when it comes to the
stock market. What vulnerabilities are
you seeing?
>> You know, I was at a AI conference just
this last week and I what struck me is
how many panels people use the word
unlimited. And the word unlimited when
you're in finance is is it's a non word,
right? It doesn't really exist.
Everything is limited. And if you talk
to mega cap tech, they're all talking
about how capacity constrained they are,
how they need more GPUs, how they don't
have enough power, and they don't have
enough data. It was strange to me
hearing all of this talk about
unlimited. And it reminded me, do you
remember when cell phone plans went to
unlimited? Right? I used to call my
girlfriend, put the phone down, and just
watch TV with pure silence, right?
because we were so excited about
unlimited. I'm worried that we're not
going to have the most cogent,
thoughtful, capacity constrained minds
with AI and capex because there's this
thought that if demand is unlimited, I
can do whatever I want.
>> So Judy, is there a side of the story
you're more comfortable with, maybe you
want to buy into the constraints and
maybe fade the moves where everyone's
talking about investing like their lives
depend on it? Like I think the thing is
is that the place where you really want
to be thoughtful of is now that we're at
this stage of the capacity investment
where we're using debt. I think it's
really critical to have a keen eye on
valuations. It's exciting to see places
where there's growth and expansion and
we've moved beyond the mega cap tech.
But part of the reason why mega cap tech
can rally with such strength is that
fundamentally those names are defensive
even if you exclude their AI benefits.
That's not the case for a lot of other
players that are more fringe and
adjacent. So that's the place where I
think you see the most vulnerability and
you see that in the pullbacks that we've
had recently. People really run away
from those names because they know
they're not as high quality.
>> Judy Bill with the latest. Judy, thank
you. Judy Bill of K Anderson run the
latest on the equity market looking
ahead to tech earnings next week.
Microsoft Meta and Alphabet after the
close on October 29th. October 29th a
week tomorrow. Fed decision in the
afternoon after the close big tech
players report.
>> You know what I think is going to be
more important? Big tech by far and
ultimately this entire market hinges on
growth expectations that are to use
Julie Beiel's word unlimited given the
fact that that is what we've seen and
that's the promise that people are
pricing in with the multiples.
>> The promise without real use case. We
don't see it yet. And this is why it's
so uncomfortable for everyone. She calls
it AI pixie dust instead of a bubble.
But isn't that what is really so
uncomfortable? They're spending all this
money. Where's actually the use case
just yet?
>> We keep going back to the comments of
the Alphabet CEO last summer when he
said the greater risk was underinvesting
and not overinvesting. That really set
the tone for their approach to this
whole moment. Meta acting like behaving
like investing like they're confronting
existential risk. That's the psychology
of the tech firms right now. That's why
you're seeing them invest the way they
are. And honestly, I mean, I understand
the idea of pixie dust and I understand
the idea of not necessarily seeing the
profitability, but every CEO you ask,
none of them think it's overstated and
they say that it's just the beginning
and that they're starting to figure out
exactly how they can percolate it
through their their staff. So, it does
seem like they also see the promise is
unlimited and they also are investing a
lot of money. So, we have to start say
asking the question, how long are you
going to wait before seeing a use case
while continuing to invest this kind of
money? Is there sort of a tipping point
at which you can't justify?
>> You know why people are nervous? Their
behavior and their communication is a
guarantee of a misallocation of
resources. When some of the richest
companies on the planet tell you that
they believe the greater risk here is
underinvesting, you should believe them.
>> You should listen to them and that's why
people are nervous.
>> Well, and it is going to be something
where people lose money. I mean, even
the Open AI CEO Sam Alman has come out
and said, "Yeah, people are going to
lose money big time and people are going
to make the wrong bets." But this is
what always has to happen during a
technological innovation. It's making
people nervous because why buy some sort
of data center in the middle of a corn
field out somewhere in nowhere close to
a big city if it's essentially there's
going to be another deepseek moment
that's going to bring the energy back
close to a lot of these cities. Look,
there are a lot of questions here. At
the same time, people keep investing.
>> Next Wednesday, they'll mint money.
Exactly.
>> Which is what they typically do. Maybe
things will change, but that's
ultimately the expectation for
Wednesday's earnings report. Equity
futures on the S&P 500 just about
unchanged with an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Lizzy Burden for
more. Hey Lizzy. Hey John. President
Donald Trump and Australian Prime
Minister Anthony Albani have signed an
agreement to boost production of
critical rare earth minerals in
Australia. The two governments will
invest more than $1 billion over the
next six months for initial projects.
Both pledging to protect their domestic
markets from unfair trade practices. And
a US appeals court is allowing for now
President Donald Trump's plan to send
National Guard troops to Portland to
counter protests against his immigration
crackdown. A divided court in San
Francisco lifted the order blocking
deployment of 200 troops. And
billionaire John Katsumatidis is urging
Republican mayoral nominee Curtis SWA to
drop out of the race to consolidate
support behind Governor Andrew Cuomo.
This echoes the calls from billionaire
investor Bill Aman in an effort to
challenge the front runner Zuran
Mandani. Katimati, a longtime Republican
and former mayoral candidate himself
said that the move is essential for
avoiding a potentially damaging outcome
for the city. And that should be my
brief. John,
>> sort of mental gymnastics right now that
I'm trying to figure out the politics of
New York City. We've got to get the
Republican to drop out to help the
failed Democrat defeat the Democrat that
won the primary.
>> Yes, correct. Yes, you
>> because the existential risk the city
faces
>> this. Yes, correct. You put a perfect
>> The Republicans have got to clean this
up.
>> The Republicans
>> Can you just help me out with that bit?
Cuz that's the bit of it I'm struggling.
>> Basically, they view SLA is not going to
win. So they're basically saying they
think Cuomo should the Democrats address
this. Is it really up to Republican?
>> I'm still waiting for Jeffree who
apparently yesterday said he will at
some point talk about it and make an
endorsement.
>> My point precisely.
>> Okay. There's a huge split in the party
and this is highlighting this and I
wonder at a certain point if there
starts to be more consolidation around
the center.
>> The Republicans are like we prefer the
Democrat not the socialist.
>> Right. Okay. Up next on the program the
morning calls plus Alicia Ree of Wed
Bush ahead of earnings from Netflix
later on today. That conversation just
around the corner live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
we were able to lower our total tariff
forecast um for the year by about half a
billion dollars from where we um uh
started the year. And I think it's that
proactive partnership in terms of really
making sure that we can remain
competitive uh and help to drive more
investment into the US, which we've
done. We think that there's actually an
opportunity for us to do better in 2026
and start to work our way back up to
those 8 to 10% targeted margins that we
set for ourselves before the tariffs uh
were put in place.
>> That was the General Motors CFO Paul
Jacobson with us in the last hour. This
hour that stock up in a pre-market by
11% a beat and a raise underlying
underlining the adaptability of
corporate America. GM knocking it out
the park in many ways this morning.
>> Yeah. and highlighting how they're able
to adapt and adjust to the changing
policy landscape while also continuing
to sell cars. It raises a question
long-term how much companies can use
upper income buyers to support their
earnings because it's the trucks and the
more expensive cars that have bolstered
things and allowed them to keep prices
stable more broadly. And that I think is
a key question. Are they benefiting from
the K-shaped economy? And can that
actually sustain things in a way for a
longer period of time than people
previously expected?
>> The stock is up by 11%. And we'll have
more on that stock in about 15 minutes
time. The broader market's doing okay,
just about positive following a big
two-day run on the S&P 500, bouncing
back from the credit scaries on
Thursday. Equity features this morning
just about unchanged. That's the price
action. Let's get to some morning calls.
First up, JP Morgan raising his price
target on science to 62, noting credit
quality trends outside of
first brands are well contained. Your
second call from Wells Fargo downgrading
Cleveland cliffs to underway calling
Monday's 22% rally excess exuberance.
And finally, TD Cowan reiterating
General Motors as a top pick after
earnings, citing positive 2026
commentary. There's that name again. The
stock is higher by more than 11%. Let's
stick with earnings. Netflix reporting
after the closing bout later on today.
Githther Raganathan of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more.
Githther, welcome to the program. what
are you and the team focused on when
they release their earnings later on
this afternoon?
>> Yeah, thank you so much, John. So, I
think the big number that everybody is
looking for obviously now that they no
longer disclose subscriber metrics is
the revenue growth number. So, you know,
they've guided to about 17% revenue
growth. Uh operating margin of course
also upwards of 30%, they've got guided
to about 31% or so. Uh the big thing I
think that everybody's going to be
looking for is you know fourth quarter
guidance. Again, we expect strong
double-digit revenue growth. Consensus
is at about 16%.
Uh and then whether they're going to
raise their operating margin guide for
the entire year. I think that's again uh
you know something that we're looking
looking at. Uh right now they're at
about 30% uh target for the full year
whether they take that up and then
provide any forward uh guidance for
2026.
>> Ga, can we talk about subs? I know they
don't emphasize that anymore, but
historically this name would be the
source of massive beats and misses. Have
we smoothed that out over the last few
quarters, Gther? Is this easier now to
forecast?
>> I'm not sure whether it's easier, John,
but I think definitely there is we we've
seen definitely a pattern of somewhat of
smoothing. I wouldn't say it's it's it's
a very smooth story. Uh but I think what
what Netflix is really trying to get uh
investors to focus on right now instead
of subscribers is really engagement. And
we saw a huge bump in engagement in the
third quarter. Think of K-pop Demon
Hunters. That was a monster monster hit
for Netflix in the third quarter. By the
metrics that we're tracking, it led to
about, you know, maybe about a 20%
increase in engagement through the third
quarter. And we expect that to be
extremely strong through the fourth
quarter as well. So that is really the
new metric that they're trying to get
everybody to focus on.
>> Githther, thank you. Thanks for jumping
on. Gther Raganatham there of Bloomberg
Intelligence. Alicia Ree of Webbush
Security has an outperform rating on
Netflix and a target of 1500, writing
the following. As Netflix continues to
enhance its ads business, its aim of
doubling ads revenue this year is
entirely achievable. Alicia joins us now
for more. Alicia, welcome to the show.
We talked to Gther about it briefly. Can
you just offer us your thoughts? What
are you laser focused on later on this
afternoon?
Yeah, I think Netflix is poised for um
to to hit their guidance this uh this
quarter. Um but I do think the focus is
primarily on um the fourth quarter
guidance and whether or not they give
2026 guidance. I think there's a lot of
high expectations that they'll give 26
um guidance and I think they might give
a couple metrics but not overall
guidance. The fourth quarter though is
shaping up to be extremely strong um
from all the metrics that we have seen.
Um the upfront season was really healthy
for Netflix and they have a lot working
for them in terms of their partnerships
um live events and um like uh Gita said
that there's um incredible engagement um
and I think that crosses the ad tier as
well as the premium tiers and so they're
they're positioned very well going into
the fourth quarter and certainly
throughout 2026 here. We've been talking
a lot about how frustrating it is for
people, Alicia, to not know where their
favorite programs are playing, whether
it comes to sporting events or whether
it comes to uh their favorite shows. And
that's the reason why M&A has always
been uh percolating in the in the
distance. How much do you expect them to
address M&A in 2026? We know that they
kind of shunned it this year.
>> Yeah, I don't think um Netflix is as
keen on M&A generally as many others. I
think Roku and Amazon, the other
platforms are doing a good job of uh you
know curating the content and working
with the likes of um you know Roku and
Amazon um as a platform on just Em
spending um doing some good marketing
having the sports landing page on the
Roku um I think it's really helpful. So,
those are um good partners and I think
as um Netflix um continues to partner
with Amazon um ads, the Roku platform
and in the future, you know, performance
marketers. I think there's a lot more
potential with that than pure M&A.
>> Are we reaching a breaking point when it
comes to how much Alicia uh consumers
are willing to pay right now given the
fact that prices have been going up
significantly and there are so many
different outlets?
I think you know the all the data that
we have seen shows incredible resilience
on this latest round of price increases
um which says to us that you know
there's still a room you know you have
something for everyone on the Netflix
tiers you have um premium tiers that's
um incredibly elastic and then you have
the ad tier which is less so um but you
know it's reasonably priced it's you
know $7 they increased it $1 and um you
know there was no push back from what we
could see.
>> Alicia, do you think there's going to be
any impact from Elon Musk earlier this
month in October calling for his
supporters on on X to cancel their
Netflix subscriptions?
>> There was probably some brief um push
back, but our survey work that we did um
which kind of coincided with um that
happening indicated very little push
back. there was there's some churn um
but the um interestingly the amount of
subscribers amount of people who were
planning to subscribe in the fourth
quarter who had never been on the
service before was higher than we've
ever seen it. So I think people are
planning to come on for you know the
Christmas NFL games and for some other
live content some specialty content and
all the content that Netflix is bringing
to the service to increase that
engagement and they're spending quite a
bit on content. um that should keep that
engagement high and keep those people on
the service
>> is basically all press good press
individuals want to know what Elon Musk
is talking about why he's saying they
should cancel their subscriptions
>> that's a tough one I think to some
extent yes um but the the boycotts you
know look at Disney that that boycott um
you know was really impactful and that
was quite damaging I think I don't know
how long that will last for them um but
it it certainly did impact them I think
this is less important Alicia, a content
decisions getting harder. Is that
ultimately what we're witnessing here?
The kind of content that you produce,
you have to be a little bit more careful
about the decisions you make and maybe
not follow and chase the political winds
at the moment.
>> Sure. To some extent, yes. But you also
want something for everyone. And that's
what Netflix's strategy is. They have
content for everyone. And they have such
a huge uh user base across the world
that they have to have something for,
you know, people of all political
persuasions. geographic locations, you
know, so they're they're trying to get
content on there for everyone that's,
you know, to to the point that they're,
you know, adding podcast content, video
games, um, they have something for
everyone, sports, it it doesn't matter.
So, I think, you know, if people don't
like some content, they can avoid it.
>> Alicia Ree of Wedbush. Alicia, thank
you. Appreciate it. Just need Land Man.
More Land Man. That's paramount, right?
We get another season.
>> Yeah, we get another season of Land Man.
And uh Sheridan is uh I'm sure working
on his next his next hit to really play
Kate.
>> I saw the commercials at the F1 race
over the weekend.
>> I got to say I love that show. It was
actually an amazing fantastic. It was an
amazing first step first uh season. So
I'm looking forward to
>> You want some more good news?
>> Yes.
>> Cane sugar coke will be sold in glass
bottles according to the Coca-Cola CFO.
>> You know how long we don't need
microlastics.
>> There we go.
>> Oh, they're actually
>> another win for RFK, right?
>> Yeah. I mean, yeah, actually it is.
There are more microplastics in recycled
glass than there is in plastic bottles.
They've actually found that.
>> You just trying to ruin this for us?
>> Yeah, I don't think that's true.
>> Glass bottle of chilled Coca-Cola with
cane sugar.
>> I think it's great. I'm just
>> fantastic thing. Bremo. Why are you a
downer about everything?
>> I'm not a downer at all.
>> The opening bow 60 minutes away after
closing yesterday that close to alltime
highs. equity futures on the S&P 500 up
by not even a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ
just about unchanged. Earnings so far
this morning pretty good. Coca-Cola,
General Motors, Zions overnight. More
still to come with your morning movers.
Let's cross over to Yahara for more. Hey
Yahra.
>> Hi John. Exactly. a strong showing in
earnings and among the winners is
Hallebertton. And shares are up nearly
5% in the pre-market after the oil field
services giant beat on revenue and blew
past suggested earnings estimates even
as oil prices remain under pressure amid
global over supply. So investors are
rewarding the company company's ability
to hold up in this tough market. And we
move on to Coca-Cola. Those shares are
also rising 2.7%
after it topped thirdarter expectations
thanks in large part to higher prices
amid steady demand. The company raised
prices 6% in the last quarter and yet
shoppers continue to snap up its
beverages. Coca-Cola Zero Sugar was a
standout in the quarter topping sales of
Diet Coke and yes they are two different
products but I'm just waiting for that
cane sugar coke that's as you said is
coming in glass bottles. And we end on
GM shares. Those are stealing the
spotlight this morning, up 11% now. It
was a beat and a raise for the car maker
after red-hot demand for its trucks and
SUVs helped offset tariff pressures. And
CEO Mary Bar giving credit to President
Trump because those tariffs were not as
bad as expected due to some discount.
CFO Paul Jacobson saying the same to you
guys earlier. John,
>> thank you very much. Yahara, Diet Coke's
got a different flavor profile, you
know.
>> Have you ever tasted Diet Coke?
>> Sure. Of course. Yeah. Okay.
>> Once upon a time.
>> Okay. I'm not a regular drinker regular.
>> I've never met a healthy person that is
a regular drinker of diet coke. Have
you?
>> Have you How do you define healthy? I
mean, honestly, I look Yes. Okay. Sure.
It's not a healthy thing to do, but
everyone can have a treat.
>> Two biggest Coke drinkers I know.
President of the United States and the
former Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen.
>> How healthy are they?
>> Don't go there. Don't go there. Let's
stick with General Motors. The stock
surgeon after delivering a beat at a
race. Does she still smoke? I think she
still smokes, right? or she definitely
likes D.
>> Okay, back to GM Blout joins us now for
more. The stock is higher by close to
11%. Craig, don't worry, we're avoiding
all of that. This is a safe place for
you. Let's talk about General Motors.
Craig, just frame for us how impressive
this beat and raise given what this
company has faced down so far this year.
>> Yeah, I can vouch for GM being healthy.
I I think uh you know the the trifecta
here as as uh Evercore put it was was a
beat a raise and also uh maybe some
upside for uh the fourth quarter and
even uh you know sort of an early taste
of of where GM's head is at for for the
outlook for 2026. I think there was a
lot to like in these results and and you
know coming into these uh numbers you
know reasons for pause right we've we've
been uh very concerned about the the
degree of of tariff tariff disruption to
to car makers uh and even the likes of
GM where you know as big as they are in
the US as much of a presence as they
have uh they also do a heck of a lot of
importing from from uh you know Mexico
and Canada and even South Korea and so
you know for them to be able execute
through all of this tumult is is pretty
impressive for the company and and the
reason why we're seeing the shares move
the way they are.
>> Craig, in a few days we get Ford. Did
the bar just creep high for Jim Farley
and the team in a few days time?
I think absolutely and and we've seen
this you know sort of long-standing uh
you know uh pattern of of Mary Bar and
GM uh sort of outperforming Ford from a
from an execution standpoint where uh
you know Jim Farley will be the first to
to sort of cop to this idea of uh
particularly on warranty expense and
quality issues. We've seen that continue
into this year where uh Ford has had to
you know uh delay uh you know new
product introductions and and really
take it on the chin in terms of you know
just how much uh it's spending on uh a
regular basis with uh recalls and and
fixing up uh vehicles that have already
been sold. Uh you know that is is
something that we've not seen anywhere
near to the degree out of GM. uh so so
much a sort of smoother execution on
GM's part through all of these uh you
know ups and downs that is difficult for
for any automaker to to be navigating at
this juncture.
>> Craig just before you go in just a
moment we'll be talking about prices
looking ahead to CPI data in America
that drops on Friday. Can you briefly
describe pricing power and how that's
evolved at these auto makers and whether
that changes going into the new year?
Yeah, we we talked uh you know offline.
Amory and I were just exchanging
messages. It it really is eyepopping to
see average new vehicle transaction
prices with a a five on it. Uh $50,000
uh you know last month that was was a
new record for the US. We've absolutely
seen pricing power and yet we've seen
reasons to be concerned about just how
sort of longstanding or or sort of
sustainable that is when we see uh you
know 84month auto loans becoming the new
72month auto loans. Uh there's there is
uh reason to sort of you know pause and
and consider uh just how how long we can
sort of keep this up in as as we you
know monitor this industry closely of
you know what some of the dynamics are
under the hood that are allowing for
sales to continue at at a strong level
for the likes of GM
>> 50k Craig thank you sir Craig Trudeau
and when we talk about the banks and
some of the credit issues this is the
industry that's been a source of some of
those issues more recently
>> yeah especially When you talk about the
idea of a 7-year uh loan to buy the car
and what you're seeing is the pace of
the value of the car is actually coming
in lower than the total outstanding loan
that people h owe. It creates a real
issue in terms of just what kinds of
losses there could be on the financing
of this. What the willingness really is
to continue to extend it.
>> Let's talk about prices. $50,000 for a
car. Unreal. The data desert getting a
drip of water this week with the
September CPI report set to be released
on Friday. Blurino Yuchi of Tro Price
writing the following. The availability
of data has been curtailed because of
the shutdown, but what we have seen so
far from the private sector suggests
that the economy is still holding up
quite well. Blina joins us now for more.
Let's start with that data on Friday.
There are several sources for inflation.
Goods, services, energy, and labor.
What's the dominant source at the
moment?
I think there is an interaction here of
various components of core inflation. So
we'd seen deflation and disinflation in
goods in the good sector for quite some
time and that's reversed this year. I
think that's a combination of a number
of factors including tariffs and it's
true that the pass through of tariffs to
consumer prices has been slow but we've
seen uh signs of it already happening
this year. But I also think that we are
seeing a stickiness in services
inflation that hasn't been here before.
We're looking at 3% or more services
inflation. It has not gone back to
prepandemic levels yet. And that I think
is reflecting the fact that you have a
labor market that maybe has cooled a bit
from the peak of the tightness back in
2022, but it's not really weak. And
we're talking about consumer demand uh
being there and sort of consumers
finding different ways to fund their
spending uh perhaps initially post
pandemic it was being funded by excess
savings and aggregate income being very
strong and now it's shifting a bit more
to leverage and financing of that
consumption. So there is a resilience
here on the part of demand that is
allowing companies to continue
increasing prices at a pace that so far
is not consistent with the Fed's 2%
inflation target. I'm afraid
>> how much has the inflation story really
been muddied by oil prices that have
come down as much as they have.
>> I think that's definitely been very
helpful. Uh for two reasons. Uh we're
seeing headline inflation running a
little bit below core inflation every
now and then. Uh we're also know that
consumers uh they buy uh oil, they buy
gasoline on a daily basis. They're uh
much more exposed to it and it can
affect inflation expectations. So I
think this has been helpful for uh
policy makers. But if you're looking at
where inflation is going to settle over
the medium to long run, I think core
inflation is really what uh what
matters. And I think the fact that we've
been now for over four years uh above
the inflation target and we've been
stuck at 3% uh for the last 12 months, I
think that's problematic even with the
help of energy. One other area that I
think we're not paying enough attention
to is food inflation because again this
is something that consumer buy more
frequently and it can affect inflation
expectations even though it's not part
of the core index. uh if uh I'm correct
in my prediction, I think in 2026 we
will see a pickup in food inflation,
both food services as well as food at
home. And that's going to be a mixture
of the fact that we are importing food
ingredients and we're going to pay more
tariffs on them, but also the tightness
in the labor market and the immigration
enforcement that seems to be the one of
the key pillars of this administration's
policy. I think that's going to lead to
tightness both in farming, in the
farming industry, but also in retail and
hospitality and that's going to reflect
in higher prices uh next year. Lorena,
what's the role of the Fed in terms of
curtailing inflation right now? And I
ask this because a lot of these
inflationary forces are exogenous and
don't necessarily come from wage
increases and the typical wage price
spiral. And there's this idea that some
of this will just work itself off on
one-time effects. And the Fed wants to
cater to the fact that there is weakness
in certain parts of the labor market. Do
you think that if the Fed cuts rates
later this month and December that
actually will cause a reaceleration of
inflation higher?
>> I think the risk is there. The
ingredients are there for uh a reflation
or inflation trade in 2026. And I'll
tell you why. I think of course we've
seen that deceleration in employment
growth and that's something that is
concerning the Fed uh and it has a dual
mandate and it needs to pay attention to
the employment side of the mandate. But
when you look at the unemployment rate
that's still fairly low. Wage inflation
has slowed but it has not come down all
the way to where it needs to be to hit
the 2% inflation target over the medium
run. Uh maybe there will be productivity
gains next year that will help the Fed
on the wage front, but we're still not
there at target. And then um I I
honestly think it's problematic that
inflation has been stuck at 3% for the
last year, for the last 12 months. And
we also have seen since spring a real
easing in financial conditions. We know
that that works through the economy with
a bit of a lag. So next year we're going
to have the boost to demand from easing
financial conditions and probably some
fiscal positive fiscal impulse. I know
that over the uh forecast horizon for
the uh government the deficits will be
uh neutral to growth but over the next
12 months I think they will be positive
to growth. So you have in my view a
rebound in activity next year held by
financial conditions easing and some
fiscal positive fiscal impulse. You have
an unemployment rate that is still
fairly low. US consumers don't have
excess savings anymore but they're very
good at leveraging and we just spoke
about that and uh taking auto loans and
extending uh the uh window of borrowing
compared to previous business cycles. So
you can do all sorts of thing to support
demand next year and we you have a Fed
that is easing or cutting interest rates
when all those factors are pointing to
demand uh picking up in 2026. I think
that sets us up for an environment where
inflation certainly won't go back to
target but it might even accelerate.
>> You wonder where that leaves the bond
market which is 90 basis points lower on
a 10-year maturity compared to where it
was in the middle of January. Blina
thank you as always. Lina Yurichi there
of Tro Price looking for higher
inflation in 2026. The Federal Reserve's
cutting interest rates into that.
>> And at the same time, what we heard from
Earl Davis earlier is that even if the
Fed cuts aggressively, it's going to
cause the long end to rally. And when we
asked why it doesn't make any sense if
you expect inflation's going to pick up
and he said, well, the market can only
focus on one thing at a time. So that's
a 2026 story and that seems to be what a
lot of people are banking on.
>> Chairman Pal set himself up to ignore
it. Is this market going to ignore it,
too? Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Let's cross over to
Lizzy Burden. Hey Lizzy.
>> Hey John. A US appeals court is allowing
for now President Donald Trump's plan to
send National Guard troops to Portland
to counter protests against his
immigration crackdown. A divided court
in San Francisco lifted the order
blocking deployment of 200 troops.
Elsewhere, Unilver has delayed its de
merger from Magnum Ice Cream due to the
US government shutdown. The company
shared the SEC is currently unable to
approve its registration to list on the
New New York Stock Exchange. The spunoff
unit was initially scheduled to debut in
the Amsterdam trade on November the 10th
with planned secondary listings in New
York and London. And police are still
looking for those precious jewelry
stolen from the Louvre and the thieves
behind the heist as well. The robbers
got away with a haul on Sunday that
included a tiara, an emerald necklace,
earrings, and a sapphire necklace. They
dropped a crown and a yellow vest with
DNA traces, which gives authorities hope
for recovery. And that should be my
brief, John.
>> As you do, just casually dropping a
crown.
>> Okay. Actually, they damaged this crown
from the 1800s, and people are saying
amateurs. That was their response.
Amateurs. Come on, get with Ocean.
>> Thank you. Great work, Lizzie, as
always. Up next on the program, we'll
set you up for the day ahead. Plus,
we'll catch up with the former Barclay
CEO, Bob Diamond, as he remains bullish
on regional banking. That conversation
up next
[Music]
We kind of all recognize that the part
of the reason why we have had such a
strong economy is that we have a
consumer who is so willing to go out
there and spend money. And that has
really propped up a lot of this economy
in a really major way. If we lose that,
as we're starting to see some
degradation in the consumer strength of
the low income, it really does ripple
through this economy when so much of it
is driven off the health of what the
retail consumer is doing. That was Judy
Bill of Kane Anderson Runick talking
about the adaptability of corporate
America and a whole lot more as we count
you down to the opening bell. Lots of
earnings in focus. Later on today,
Netflix results after the market close.
You'll also hear from Western Alliance
2. As we make our way to Wednesday,
Tesla and IBM results on Thursday.
numbers from Intel, Ford, and American
Airlines on Friday. CPI data, the main
event on the data front because we don't
get much of it these days. And you
consumer sentiment going into the
weekend. Let's stick with earnings.
Zion's reporting a beat on earnings with
a net income of $222 million despite a
$50 million loss from an alleged fraud.
The former Barclay CEO Bob Diamond
writes the following. The dislocation in
regional banks stems from a few single
bank specific issues but doesn't change
our view on the opportunity. We remain
very bullish on regional bank
consolidation. Bob joins us now for
more. Bob, good morning.
>> Morning John.
>> It's good to see you sir. Look, a few
years ago we had some problems managing
interest rate risk. Can we avoid it with
credit risk in this segment now?
>> I think broadly in regional banks is as
you just quoted me were very bullish. Um
I think you know both the interest rate
dislocation that started with SVB or was
recognized with SVB and we're really a
function of rates going from 0 to 5 a.5%
is in the market. I think the um you
know the regional bank area has some
really strong banks and some that are
not as well managed. So, of course, some
have more exposure, for example, to
commercial real estate than others have.
And if the commercial real estate is in
Iowa, it might be different that if it's
in LA. So, we look at all of those
things. But as a sector, this is a
really, really strong sector. The banks,
there's 4 and a.5 thousand. It has the
support of Secretary of the Treasury
Bessant. That consolidation is
necessary. Makes the banks more
competitive. It increases the roe. that
makes them um uh just better better
investments and I think 4 and a half
thousand banks in the United States of
America it's just it's the wrong number
and so we see this going over the next
two to three years to closer to a,000 or
1500 and we think also uh John I think
this is really important
the the thesis here is one of
consolidation and taking costs out so
many of these smaller community banks
are just too small to succeed they're
very good banks but to get an a positive
ROE with technology costs with
regulatory relation costs. Virtually all
of these banks have the same technology
platform. So you eliminate one
technology platform. Many of them or all
of them have regulatory relation staffs.
You can eliminate one of those. You
don't really need two. So if you if you
add the cost synergies which we've
proven in back testing really come out
and are real and you add the increase in
ROE because when a bank buys another
bank there's purchasing accounting and
you have to mark to market fully through
the P&L the bank that you're acquiring
you're putting capital in automatically
the ROE goes up because the asset prices
are different. So when we look at the
cost savings, we look at the increase in
ROE, we look at 4 and a half thousand
banks, we look at too many or too small
to succeed, this is probably the best
investment we've seen where the downside
is really, really protected and there's
good upside.
>> It's happening. Your forecast is
happening. We've seen it with Fifth
Third and Co-America. You're suggesting
there's more to come. You talked about
how region specific some of these issues
can be. Is there a common thread in the
consolidation so far? Um I think I think
what we have seen is where the synergies
are most clear is instate and close to
state. So when you have a really good
front office meaning you have a good
business around deposits and loans and a
similarity in terms of region where
you're really adding clients and
customers and taking out costs. those
are the best opportunities but not not
in terms of where in the US it's more
that it in instate and close to state is
is the preference.
>> There's been this fear that some of the
biggest banks have really taken the
wealthiest and the highest credit
ratings in terms of customer base and
that mid mid-tier banks are stuck with
everybody else and that that's where the
credit problems have really come. Has
there been anything that you've seen
that proves that to be true?
>> No. uh we've seen idiosyncratic issues.
We've seen certain banks that you know
may have a specific name issue. But the
truth is that you know 40 to 50% of
lending to small businesses in the US
come from the regional and community
banks. They don't come from the big
banks. Many of the big four, many of the
larger regionals just don't have the
cost structure or the attention to
service smaller businesses. So we think
the credit quality on balance in lending
is is very very good across uh regional
and community banks.
>> If there's no real weakness that they're
seeing with respect to consumers or
smaller businesses, does it make sense
and does it really help the case to have
the Fed cutting rates at the same time
that inflation is still a concern? I
think the cutting rates I mean if you if
you think of the envi the go forward
environment so let's say a regional bank
buys a community bank you get the
synergies you have an ROE and now you're
focused on additional acquisitions and
what's the go forward the go forward is
terrific I mean the the the Treasury the
Fed the SEC are encouraging
consolidation
um they're talking about simplifying
capital rules um they're they're they're
talking about um you know endorsing the
these mergers and this this
consolidation and then you have rates at
four to four and a quarter% likely
coming down this month potentially again
in December you have a 100 basis points
between twos and tens you can't make a
better environment for banks going
forward than this so if you strengthen
through consolidation and then you look
at the go forward obviously assuming
that the economy stays stays stable and
strong it's a great environment for
banks.
>> But you're forecasting at least that
4,500 number to be cut in half in the
next 3 years. Is that right?
>> More than that.
>> How is that possible?
>> I think one of the situations we faced
prior to this administration is there
wasn't quite the same support for
approving mergers. Was it Elizabeth
Warren and Bernie Sanders a little bit
on the edge? Like I'm very very
surprised Ann Marie that Elizabeth
Warren would come out and say we
shouldn't approve consolidation in banks
and we're talking about putting
additional capital in banks making them
stronger making them better competitors
with JP Morgan and city and yet she's
against it and that's the politics of
being a liberal and saying no no no to
anything that looks like it's positive
for business and positive for profits.
This administration has been very clear.
It's going to make the banks stronger.
It's going to make them better
competitors to the big banks. It's going
to provide more lending. In a way, it
it's it's getting more it's kind of
monetary easing, right? It's getting
more money into the market for
businesses that re need to raise money,
small businesses to expand their expand
what they do.
>> Bob, we've got 30 seconds left with you,
which is not enough, I know.
>> Oh, come on. Give me more.
>> The mayoral race in New York City.
>> Yes. the beating heart of capitalism and
the socialist is ahead. What's your
brief take on what's happening in this
city?
>> You know, I think the city is at the
strongest it's been since pre-COVID. Um,
you know, I live in Midtown. We have our
office in Midtown. I walk to work in the
morning for for 11 blocks and I have
never seen so many people on the streets
every morning as we've seen in the last
couple months. The city was really hit
by CO. It was really, really tough. I
think we all kind of, you know,
struggled through, not quite able to
admit this is really bad. And it's
really good. The city's back. New
restaurants, new clubs, people excited
down in the village. Um, my my my son uh
and his family who live in London are
moving to Brooklyn. They're really
excited. I think the the the the city
has a lot of buzz.
>> You managed to answer that question
without
time, everyone.